Thailand source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017)
Category: Commerce
Source URL: https://www.asean-competition.org/file/pdf_file/Thailand%20Trade%20Competition%20Act%202017.pdf
Note: English unofficial translation distributed through ASEAN Competition.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: This Act is entitled the “Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560”.

Section 2. Original section/article: 2. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: This Act shall be effective 90 days from the date of its publication in 
the Government Gazette.

Section 3. Original section/article: 3. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Trade Competition Act B.E. 2542 shall be repealed.

Section 4. Original section/article: 4. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: This Act shall not apply to the operation of the followings: 
(1) central, regional, or local administrations; 
(2) state-owned enterprises, public organizations, or other government agencies, 
provided that they conduct their undertakings according to the law or resolutions of the 
Cabinet which are necessary for the benefit of maintaining national security, public interest, 
the interests of society, or the provision of public utilities; 
(3) groups of farmers, cooperatives, or cooperative group s recognized under the 
law and having the aim in their business operations to benefit the vocation of farming; 
(4) businesses that are specifically regulated under other sectoral laws having 
jurisdiction over competition matters.

Section 5. Original section/article: 5. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Under this Act: 
“ business” means an operation carried out for benefit of trade in agriculture, 
industry, commerce, finance, insurance, and services, and shall include other operations as 
prescribed in any ministerial regulation(s); 
* This unofficial English translation of the Trade Competition Act B .E. 2560 has been prepared by the 
Office of Trade Competition Commission and does not have any legal effect . The OTCC publishes it 
only for the purpose of reaching to the wider public. Any interpretation and implementation of the Trade 
Competition Act shall be based on the Thai-language version. 
-2- 
“business operator” means a vendor, producer for sale, person who places an order 
or imports products into the Kingdom for sale, buyer for production or resale of goods, or 
service provider in the business; 
“good” means an object used for commodity or consumption, including a document 
demonstrating rights in such object; 
“service” means a procurement of work by way of commission, grant of any right 
or permission to use or take benefits of any property or any operation in return for monetary 
remuneration or other benefit, but shall not include labor employment; 
“ price” means a price of a good and shall include a remuneration for service 
provision; 
“market” means a relevant market of goods or services which are of the same type 
or substitutable when considering qualifications, prices, or purposes of use of the goods or 
services and the area where such goods are sold or such services are provided; 
“business operator with a dominant position of market power” means one or more 
business operators in a market who have a market share and sales revenue in excess of the 
thresholds prescribed in the Commission ’ s notification and one or more factors on 
competition conditions, as the case may be , shall be taken into consideration . The 
Commission shall review the market shares and sales revenue thresholds at least once every 
three years from the date of issuance of the notification. 
In determining the market share and sales revenue of a business operator with a 
dominant position of market power, the market shares and sales revenue of all the business 
operators related to each other due to a policy or commanding power as prescribed in the 
Commission’ s notification shall be taken into consideration . Such business operator s 
having market share s and sales revenue s, as per above, shall be considered business 
operators with a dominant position of market power; 
“Factors on competition conditions” means the number of business operators in the 
market, an amount of investment money, accessibility to important production factor s, 
distribution channels, business oper ation networks, necessary infrastructure for the 
business operation, governmental rules and regulations, and other factors prescribed in the 
Commission’s notification; 
“Commission” means the Trade Competition Commission; 
“Commissioner” means a Trade Competition Commissioner; 
“Office” means the Office of the Trade Competition Commission; 
“ Secretary- General” means the Secretary- General of the Trade Competition 
Commission; 
“Officer” means the Secretary-General, and official of the Office holding a position 
not lower than a civil servant at the practitioner level and appointed by the Commission in 
order to perform duties under this Act; 
-3- 
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of this Act.

Section 6. Original section/article: 6. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Minister of Commerce shall be the Minister in charge of this Act 
and shall have the power to issue ministerial regulations to fix fees not exceeding the 
amounts indicated in the Annex to this Act. The Minister shall also have the power to reduce 
or exempt fees and determine any other operational requirements in order to implement this 
Act. 
Such ministerial regulations shall be effective on publication in the Government 
Gazette. 
CHAPTER 1 
TRADE COMPETITION COMMISSION

Section 7. Original section/article: 7. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: There shall be a Commission called the “ Trade Competition 
Commission” consisting of a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, and other five 
Commissioners, appointed by the Prime Minister from persons chosen in a selection 
process and approved by the Cabinet. 
The Secretary-General shall be the secretary to the Commission.

Section 8. Original section/article: 8. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Each Commissioner shall be a person who has achievements or has 
performed duties that demonstrate that he or she has requisite knowledge and has expertise 
and/or experience of not less than ten years in one or more of the following fields including, 
law, economics, finance, accounting, industr y, business administration, consumer 
protection, or other fields which benefit competition regulation. The period of experience 
in these fields may be considered cumulatively.

Section 9. Original section/article: 9. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Each Commissioner shall possess the following qualifications: 
(1) possess Thai nationality; 
(2) be forty years of age or more, but not exceeding seventy years of age; 
(3) not hold any political position; 
(4) not hold any position in a political party; 
(5) be of sound mind; 
(6) be free of drug addiction; 
(7) not be bankrupt or not have any prior bankruptcy due to corruption; 
(8) not be incapacitated or person under disability; 
(9) not be under a ny sentence of imprisonment, or in custody based on a court 
order; 
(10) not have been sentenced to imprison ment, or have been acquitted less than 
five years prior to the date his or her name is submitted to the Cabinet for an approval under

Section 10. Original section/article: 12. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
(3), except for an offense committed with recklessness or a petty offence; 
-4- 
(11) not have been sentenced or deemed by a court order to have his or her 
properties vested in the State due to irregular wealth or an abnormal increase of properties; 
(12) not have been fired, discharged or dismissed from duty in the civil service, a 
government agenc y, a state-owned enterprise, or a private agenc y due to corruption in 
performing duties, or severely atrocious conduct, or for reasons related to a corrupt action 
or unlawful conduct in government service; 
(13) not be a J ustice in the Constitutional Court, an Election Commissioner, an 
Ombudsman, a National Anti - Corruption Commissioner, an Auditor General 
Commissioner, or a National Human Rights Commissioner; 
(14) not have been removed from a position under any organic law created under 
the Constitution for the prevention and suppression of corruption.

Section 11. Original section/article: 10. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In addition to the qualifications under

Section 12. Original section/article: 9. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, each Commissioner 
shall: 
(1) not hold any position in a business entity , nor be a partner with management 
power in a partnership , nor hold more than five -percent share in the total capital of any 
company; 
(2) not hold a position as a civil servant with a title or a regular salary; 
(3) not hold a position as an official or employee of a government agency or local 
administration, or be a committee member or advisor to a government agenc y which 
operates a business; 
(4) not hold any position in an institution or association as a group of business 
operators with common objectives or joint benefits in trade. 
In case that a person chosen under

Section 13. Original section/article: 12. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
is a person holding any position 
under paragraph 1, the Prime Minister shall appoint that person only when he or she resigns 
from such position, which shall be done within 30 days from the date of selection. If that 
person does not resign within the time period required, it shall be deemed that such person 
has never been selected as a Commissioner. The selection of a C ommissioner to replace 
such person under

Section 14. Original section/article: 12. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall then be undertaken.

Section 15. Original section/article: 11. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In the process of appointing Commissioners, there shall be a 
Selection C ommittee comprising the following nine members whose duty is to choose 
suitable persons among candidates to be proposed as Commissioners: 
(1) Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance; 
(2) Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives; 
(3) Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce; 
(4) Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Justice; 
(5) Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Industry; 
(6) Secretary-General of the National Economic and Social Development Board; 
(7) Secretary-General of the Consumer Protection Board; 
-5- 
(8) Chairperson of the Thai Chamber of Commerce; and 
(9) Chairperson of the Federation of Thai Industries. 
The Selection Committee shall select one Selection Commit tee member to be 
Chairperson of the Selection Committee. 
The Chairperson of the Selection Com mittee and Selection Committee m embers 
shall have no right to apply for a Commissioner position. 
The Office shall act as an administrative unit for any operational support required 
in the Commissioner selection process. 
The Chairperson and other Selection C ommittee members shall be entitled to a 
remuneration and other expenses in their performance of duties as prescribed by the 
Cabinet.

Section 16. Original section/article: 12. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The selection and appointment of Commissioners shall be performed 
as follows: 
(1) The Selection Committee shall call for application s from persons who have 
achievements or performed any duties that demonstrate that he or she possesses the 
requisite knowledge and has the required expertise or experience in accordance with

Section 17. Original section/article: 8. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, including having the qualifications specified under Sections 9 and 10 . The call 
for application s shall be an nounced to the general public for no less than 30 days 
continuously. 
(2) After the time period under (1) has passed, the Selection Committee shall 
consider choosing applicants with the required qualifications to become Commissioners to 
fill the number of available Commissioner positions in accordance with

Section 18. Original section/article: 7. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
and shall 
propose a list of selected persons to the Minister with the details concerning such persons 
indicating clearly or containing grounds to demonstrate that those persons are suitable in 
one of the areas listed under

Section 19. Original section/article: 8. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, as well as qualifying under Sections 9 and 10. 
(3) The Minister shall submit the names of selected persons with detail s as 
specified in (2) to the Cabinet within 15 days from the date on which he receives the 
candidates’ names from the Selection Committee for approval. 
(4) When the Cabinet approves persons to fill the positions of Commissioners, it 
shall submit names to the Prime Minister for an appointment order for the Commissioners. 
In the case where the Cabinet approves Commissioners but does not meet the 
required number of Commissioners to be appointed, the Selection Committee shall 
consider selecting persons to fill in such open positions by proceeding under (1), (2), (3), 
and (4) until all the positions are filled. 
On appointing Commissioners for the first Commission , after the Cabinet has 
approved the names of persons to fill all the available positions, it shall be required that 
those persons then convene and choose among themselves a Chairperson and a Deputy 
-6- 
Chairperson for the Commission before a submission to the P rime Minister for an 
appointment order is madeใ 
The time period, rules, procedur e, and conditions for selecting C ommissioners 
shall be prescribed in a ministerial regulation.

Section 20. Original section/article: 13. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Each Commissioner shall hold office for a four-year term and shall 
only hold office for two terms. 
After two years , three Commissioners shall resign their positions in the first 
Commission by means of a draw. Such resignations by means of a draw shall be deemed 
resignations and end the terms of the positions. 
The Commissioners who are resigned at the end of term of their office shall hold 
their positions in order to perform their duties until the appointment of new Commissioners 
is made. 
Not less than 90 days before end of term of the office of a Commissioner , the 
Selection Committee shall rapidly proceed to select a person appropriate to be appointed as 
a new Commissioner.

Section 21. Original section/article: 14. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Other than resignation at the end of term of an office, a Commissioner 
shall be removed from the position due to one of the following reasons: 
(1) death; 
(2) resignation during a term; 
(3) the Cabinet’s resolution to remove a Commissioner due to failure to fulfill 
his or her duty, atrocious behavior, or lack of capacity to perform duties; 
(4) deemed unqualified under

Section 22. Original section/article: 10. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
When a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, or a Commissioner is removed from 
their position due to any one of the situations as stipulated under paragraph one, the process 
of selection and appointment of a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, or a Commissioner, 
in accordance with

Section 23. Original section/article: 12. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, shall be undertaken in order to fill that vacant position. The 
person appointed to fill that position shall serve in the office for the remaining term of the 
Commissioner being replaced. If the remaining office term is fewer than 90 days, the 
appointment process of a replacement commissioner for the remaining period of the office 
may be disregarded. 
During the period whe rein a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, or a 
Commissioner under paragraph two has not been replaced , the other serving 
Commissioners shall perform their dut ies, and it shall be deemed that the Commission 
consists of a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, or Commissioner as remained unless the 
remaining in the Commission is less than four persons.

Section 24. Original section/article: 15. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In case a Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson resigns from his or 
her position under

Section 25. Original section/article: 13. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
and there is a new Commissioner appointed , or in case a 
-7- 
Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson resigns from his or her position under

Section 26. Original section/article: 14. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the 
Commission shall select one Commissioner to be Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson and 
shall submit this recommendation to the Prime Minister to request the issuance of an order 
to appoint such recommended person as Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson, as the case 
may be.

Section 27. Original section/article: 16. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The person resigning from the position of Chairperson, Deputy 
Chairperson, or Commissioner shall not take any position in any limited company, public 
limited company, or any other business which is a party under the consideration of the 
Commission for any matter , unless he or she has resigned from the position for not less 
than two years.

Section 28. Original section/article: 17. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Commission shall have the following powers and duties: 
(1) to make recommendations to the Minister in issuing ministerial regulations 
pursuant to this Act; 
(2) to issue regulations or notifications for the performance of duties under this 
Act; 
(3) to regulate business operations and impose guidelines to maintain free and fair 
competition; 
(4) to consider complaints and make inquiries regarding offences under this Act; 
(5) to consider and make decisions on requests under

Section 29. Original section/article: 59. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(6) to impose regulations on investigation and inquiry undertaken by sub-
committees of inquiry; 
(7) to notify the appointment of officers to perform duties under this Act; 
(8) proceed with criminal cases according to a complaint of injured persons under

Section 30. Original section/article: 78. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(9) to consider and impose administrative fines under

Section 31. Original section/article: 83. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, as well as to file lawsuits in administrative courts; 
(10) to invite any person to provide factual information, explanation, 
recommendations, or opinions; 
(11) to propose opinions and recommendations to the Minister and the Cabinet 
with regard to the government’s policies on competition; 
(12) to give recommendations to governm ent agencies on rules, regulations, or 
orders which are obstacles to competition and causing obstruction, restriction, or reduction 
of competition, and that may result in unfairness between business operators; 
(13) to determine plans, strategies, and guidelines on management of the Office; 
(14) to issue regulations or rules regarding organizational structure, personnel 
management, budgeting, finance, and property and other operations of the Office; 
(15) to perform other duties as the law prescribes as powers and duties of the 
Commissioners. 
-8- 
Generally applicable regulations or notifications shall take effect when they are 
published in the Government Gazette.

Section 32. Original section/article: 18. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Commission shall provide for a procedure for receiving opinions 
from interested persons and the general public. These opinions shall be considered before 
the issuing of regulations or notifications on competition that are to be generally applicable. 
Information on matters and issues open for public opinion shall be provided . The period 
for receiving opinions shall not be less than 30 days, unless there is an emergency or an 
urgent necessity, for which the Commission may impose a time period of less than 30 days. 
The Office shall provide a record summarizing the opinions received, consisting 
of information on opinions received, and a resolution or outcome of the Commission ’s 
considerations that respond s to the received opinions as well as reason ing and further 
guidelines on the matter . Such a record shall be made available through the information 
network of the Office.

Section 33. Original section/article: 19. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Meetings of the Commission shall be attended by no less than half of 
the entire number of Commissioners, to establish a quorum. 
In meetings of the Commission, if the Chairperson does not attend a meeting or is 
unable to perform his or her duties, the Deputy Chairperson shall chair the meeting. If the 
Deputy Chairperson does not attend the meeting or is unable to perform his or her duties, 
the meeting shall select one Commissioner to chair the meeting. 
The d ecisions of meetings shall be based on a majority vote and each 
Commissioner shall have one vote. If the voting ends in an equal number of votes for and 
against a matter under consideration, the Chair of the meeting shall have a deciding vote to 
make a final decision.

Section 34. Original section/article: 20. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Commission shall have the power to appoint a sub-committee to 
consider or implement any task assigned by the Commission.

Section 35. Original section/article: 21. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Commis sion shall appoint one or more s ub- committees of 
inquiry. Each sub- committee shall consist of persons with knowledge and experience 
related to criminal cases to be appointed, including a person who is or was a district 
attorney, a person who is or was a policeman, a person who is or was a government officer 
with knowledge and experience in economics, law, commerce, accounting, or other fi elds 
deemed necessary to be members of the sub-committee of inquiry being created. An officer 
shall be assigned as a member of and secretary to any sub-committee of inquiry. Any sub-
committee of inquiry created shall have an initial meeting to select one member to be its 
Chairperson. 
Sub-committees of inquiry shall have powers and duties to investigate and inquire 
about matters regarding an offence under this Act . When a s ub- committee of inquiry 
considers that the inquiry process has been completed, it shall provide for an opinion along 
with a report to be submitted to the Commission within twelve months from the da te the 
-9- 
Commission appoints that sub-committee. In any case of justified necessity, an extension 
shall be given for no more than six months by the Commission. The reasons underlying the 
necessity for such an extension shall be recorded.

Section 36. Original section/article: 19. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall apply , mutatis mutandis , to meetings of sub-
committees and sub-committees of inquiry.

Section 37. Original section/article: 23. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson, and Commissioners shall 
work full-time with remuneration, expenses for performing duties, and other benefits , as 
prescribed by the Cabinet . In determining remuneration, the prohibition o n holding 
particular positions after a term of office under

Section 38. Original section/article: 21. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be taken 
into account. 
Remuneration and other expenses incurred in the performance of duties of the 
chairpersons of sub-committees and members of sub-committees under

Section 39. Original section/article: 21. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be prescribed by the Cabinet.

Section 40. Original section/article: 24. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing duties under this Act, the Chairperson, Deputy 
Chairperson, Commissioners, a nd members of any sub- committees of inquiry shall be 
officers under the Criminal Code and shall have the powers and duties of inquiry held by 
officers under the Criminal Procedure Code.

Section 41. Original section/article: 25. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In a case where the Commission has reached an opinion that it should 
file a criminal suit and has submitted its opinion with its inquiry report to a district attorney, 
but the district attorney issues a non-prosecution order, the Commission may oppose the 
district attorney’s non-prosecution order pursuant to the Criminal Procedure Code, and the 
Chairperson shall utilize the power s of the Commissioner General or a governor of a 
province, as the case may be. 
In a case where the Chairperson opposes the district attorney ’s order, the inquiry 
report along with its opinion shall be submitted to the Attorney-General to consider. If the 
Attorney- General considers that the inquiry report along with the opinion that the 
Chairperson submits is not sufficiently complete to proceed with the case, the Attorney -
General shall notify the Commission for its further consideration by indicating the areas 
where the details are incomplete at one time. In this case, the Chairperson and the Attorney-
General shall joi ntly establish a working group, consisting of an equal number of 
representatives from each side with powers and duties to consider any incomplete evidence 
and gather additional evidence in order to make it complete to proceed with its submission 
to the Attorney-General to order a prosecution. 
The Office shall operate as the secretariat of the working group under paragraph 
two.

Section 42. Original section/article: 26. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Criminal lawsuits and civil lawsuits for damages under this Act shall 
be under the jurisdiction of the intellectual property and international courts. 
-10- 
CHAPTER 2 
OFFICE OF TRADE COMPETITION COMMISSION

Section 43. Original section/article: 27. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office of Trade Competition Commission shall be established as 
a government agency, which is not part of the civil service, nor a state -owned enterprise, 
but shall have the status of a legal person. 
The o peration of the Office shall not be subject to labor protection law, labor 
relations law, social welfare law, or workmen’s compensation law. However, officials and 
employees of the Office shall receive b enefits no less than those prescribed in the labor 
protection law, social welfare law, and compensation money law.

Section 44. Original section/article: 28. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office shall have its headquarter in Bangkok or other nearby 
provinces, and may establish branch offices in any other places.

Section 45. Original section/article: 29. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office shall have the following powers and duties: 
(1) be responsible for the administrative work of the Commission and its sub-
committees; 
(2) to monitor business operators for violations of this Act and report the same to 
the Commission; 
(3) to study, research, analyze, and research goods, services and working conducts 
in business operations, as well as to make recommendations on trends and provide opinions 
to promote, develop, and assist to regulate business operations; 
(4) to establish a database o n the size of good s or service markets that have a 
tendency to create market monopolies, as prescribed by the Commission , and make such 
database available to the general public; 
(5) to receive complaints in which a person alleges that there is a violation of this 
Act. Then, it shall seek all factual information and gather evidence on such complaint to a 
sufficient degree in order to submit that matter to the Commission. This shall be conducted 
in accordance with a regulation prescribed by the Commission; 
(6) to hold a title, possessory right, or other rights in proprieties; 
(7) to establish a right or enter into any legal act with regard to property; 
(8) to exchange information, participate in negotiations, mak e an agreement and 
cooperate with other entiti es or agencies both in and outside the country with regard to 
matters related to the Office’s operation; 
(9) to provide for or cooperate with other entities on training and knowledge 
development with regard to competition matters; 
(10) to coordinate and cooperate with other civil service offices and government 
agencies relevant to the performance of duties under this Act; 
(11) to receive fees, as prescribed by the law , as well as remunerations, service 
charges, or income from its operation; 
-11- 
(12) to disseminate the outcome of matters considered by the Commission to the 
general public; 
(13) to produce an annual report demonstrating the results achieved and challenges 
met by the Commission and the Office , which shall be provided to the Cabinet and 
disseminated to the general public; 
(14) to perform duties pursuant to notifications, regulations, the Commission ’s 
resolutions, and duties assigned by the Commission or its sub-committees; 
(15) to perform any other function that the law prescribes as powers and duties of 
the Office.

Section 46. Original section/article: 30. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office shall have a Secretary-General who is responsible for the 
operation of the Office, and he or she shall report directly to the Chairperson, and shall be 
a supervisor of all officials and employees of the Office. 
The Secretary-General shall be the representative of the Office in external matters 
related to the Office’s operation. The Secretary-General may assign his or her power to any 
person to act on his or her behalf. This shall be pursuant to a regulation prescribed by the 
Commission.

Section 47. Original section/article: 31. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Chairperson, by the Commission’s approval, shall be the person 
with the power to appoint and/or remove the Secretary-General from the Office. 
The criteria and method for opening applications, selection, and appointment of 
the Secretary - General shall be in accordance with a notification prescribed by the 
Commission.

Section 48. Original section/article: 32. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A person to be appointed as the Secretary-General shall possess the 
following qualifications: 
(1) possess Thai nationality; 
(2) be no more than sixty-five years of age; 
(3) be able to work full-time for the Office; 
(4) have knowledge and expertise in the field of law, economics, finance, 
accounting, industry, business administration, consumer protection , or other related fields 
as prescribed in the Commission’s notification; 
(5) other qualifications as prescribed in the Commission’s notification.

Section 49. Original section/article: 33. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A person falling into one of the following categories shall be 
prohibited to from appointment as Secretary-General: 
(1) be bankrupt or have any prior bankruptcy due to corruption; 
(2) be incapacitated or person under disability; 
(3) be under any sentence of imprisonment, or in custody based on a court’s order; 
(4) have been sentenced to imprisonment except for an offense committed with 
recklessness or a petty offence; 
-12- 
(5) be a member of a board of director s, manager, or authorized person in an 
administrative or manage ment role of a limited company or public limited company or 
other business governed by this Act; 
(6) be a government officer, official , or employee in the civil service , a s tate-
owned enterprise, or other government agency, or local administration; 
(7) be or have been a person holding a political position, except if he or she 
resigned from such a position no less than one year; 
(8) be or have been a committee member or holding other positions in a political 
party or be an official of a political party , unless he or she resigned from such position or 
positions no less than one year; 
(9) have been fired, discharged or dismissed from duty in the civil service, a 
government agency, a state -owned enterprise, or a private agency due to corruption in 
performing duties, or severely atrocious conduct, or for reasons related to a corrupt action 
or unlawful conduct in government service; 
(10) have been sentenced or deemed by a court order to have his or her properties 
vested in the State due to irregular wealth or abnormal increase of properties; 
(11) be a person holding any position in an institution or association which is a 
group of business operators with common objectives or joint benefits in trade.

Section 50. Original section/article: 34. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Secretary-General shall receive a salary and other remunerations 
as prescribed by the Commission. In determining the salary, the prohibition o n holding 
particular positions after resigning from the Secretary-General’s position under

Section 51. Original section/article: 43. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be taken into account.

Section 52. Original section/article: 35. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Secretary-General shall hold a term of four years. 
A Secretary-General that resigns from the position in accordance with the end of 
the term, may be reappointed; however, he or she shall not hold the position for more than 
two terms.

Section 53. Original section/article: 36. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Other than resigning from the position in accordance with the end of 
the term, the Secretary -General may be removed from the position due to the following 
situations: 
(1) death; 
(2) voluntary resignation; 
(3) lack of qualifications under

Section 54. Original section/article: 32. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, or falling into a prohibited category 
under

Section 55. Original section/article: 33. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(4) have a conflict of interest as set out in

Section 56. Original section/article: 41. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(5) be subject of a Commission’s resolution to remove the Secretary-General due 
to failing to perform his or her duties, unfit conduct, or lack of capacity. 
-13-

Section 57. Original section/article: 37. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: There shall be deputy secretary generals according to the number the 
Commission prescribes in order to assist the Secretary-General’s performance of duties, as 
assigned by the Secretary-General.

Section 58. Original section/article: 38. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Secretary-General shall have the following powers and duties: 
(1) to assign, appoint, remove, promote, demote, reduce a salary or wage of, 
punish officials and employees under disciplinary rules as well as discharge them from 
their positions as officials or employees. This shall be in accordance with rules prescribed 
by the Commission . If the matter involve s an official at the level of De puty Secretary -
General, or high-level executives, or an internal auditor, an approval from the Commission 
shall be required; 
(2) to set regulations on the operation of the Office that are not in conflict or in 
contradiction with rules or resolutions prescribed by the Commission; 
(3) to perform any other function that the law prescribes as a power and/or duty 
of the Office.

Section 59. Original section/article: 39. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing his or her duties, the Secretary -General may assign 
powers to an official to act on his or her behalf pursuant to a rule prescribed by the 
Commission. 
The person assigned under paragraph one shall have the same powers and duties 
as those of the Secretary-General in the matter assigned to him or her.

Section 60. Original section/article: 40. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In case there is no person holding the position of Secretary -General 
or such person cannot perform his or her duties, the Commission shall appoint a Deputy 
Secretary- General to be the acting Secretary-General. In case there is no Deputy Secretary-
General or such person cannot perform his or her duties, the Commission shal l appoint an 
official of the Office to be the acting Secretary-General. 
An acting Secretary-General under paragraph one shall have the same powers and 
duties as those of the Secretary-General.

Section 61. Original section/article: 41. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Secretary-General shall not have a conflict of interest in legal acts 
carried out by the Office or in a business operation carried out for the Office, whether 
directly or indirectly, except for the case where he or she is a shareholder for benefits of a 
good faith investment in limited companies or public limited companies that have 
undertaken such acts with a conflict of interest. Such shareholding shall not exceed the rates 
imposed in the Commission’s rules. 
In any case where the Secretary-General’s parents, spouse, children, or spouse ’s 
parents undertakes such shareholdings under paragraph one, the Secretary-General shall be 
deemed to have a conflict of interest under paragraph one.

Section 62. Original section/article: 42. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any legal act or business operation not conducted in accordance with

Section 63. Original section/article: 41. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall not be binding for the Office. 
-14-

Section 64. Original section/article: 43. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A person resigning from his or her position as Secretary-General shall 
not take any position in a ny limited company, public limited company, or any other 
businesses which is a party in a matter being considered by the Commission, unless he or 
she has resigned from the position for not less than two years.

Section 65. Original section/article: 44. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Money and properties for the operation of the Office shall be 
comprised of the followings: 
(1) money and assets transferred to the Office under

Section 66. Original section/article: 91. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(2) money the Government allocates as initial capital; 
(3) general subsidized money allocated by the Government; 
(4) fees, compensation, service charges, or other income from the operation; 
(5) donated money and assets or subsidized money from a foreign country as well 
as international organizations. There shall not be any condition or commitment agreed that 
may affect the operation of the Commission or the Office; 
(6) interest or other benefits accruing from the Office’s money or assets.

Section 67. Original section/article: 45. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: All the income that the Office receives from its operation each year 
shall be vested in the Office for its operating expenses and other appropriate charges, such 
as maintenance and other charges to offset depreciation, benefits to the Commission and 
its sub-committees, and money to be held in reserve for the operation or for use for other 
matters relevant to the functioning of the Office. 
Income under paragraph one shall not be transferred to the Ministry of Finance as 
the State’s income. 
In the case that Office’s income is insufficient to cover its expenses and ensure the 
efficient operation of the Office and cover other appropriate charges, and funds from other 
sources are unavailable, the Government shall allocate government budget to the Office in 
the necessary amount, as general subsidized money under

Section 68. Original section/article: 46. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office shall transfer administrative fines collected under this Act 
to the Ministry of Finance as the State’s income immediately after the statute of limitation 
ends for filing a lawsuit or after the court has issued a final judgment, whichever the case 
may be.

Section 69. Original section/article: 47. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: For the benefit of allocating the government ’s budget to the Office 
under

Section 70. Original section/article: 44. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
(3), the Office shall propose a budget for the fiscal year for which the 
Office seeks support to the Cabinet in order to seek an allocation of general subsidized 
money for the Office in the draft Annual Expense Budget or the draft Additional Expense 
Budget, as the case may be.

Section 71. Original section/article: 48. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Properties of the Office shall not be subject to any liability under 
compulsory executions, and no person may raise a statute of limitation against the Office 
on matters relating to properties of the Office. 
-15-

Section 72. Original section/article: 49. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Office shall establish a financial statement and accounts for the 
operation of the Office to be submitted to an account auditor within 120 days from the end 
date of the fiscal year. 
In every fiscal year, the Office of the Auditor -General of Thailand shall be an 
account auditor and assessor of expenses of money and properties of the Office with an 
analysis of effectiveness of the expenses and an opinion as to whether such expenses are in 
accordance with as well as are used to achieve the purposes and objectives of the Office. A 
report shall be made and submitted to the Commission, the Cabinet, and the Parliament. 
The Office shall be an audited unit under the organic law to the Constitution on the 
auditing and control of public finance. 
CHAPTER 3 
PREVENTION OF MONOPOLY AND UNFAIR TRADE

Section 73. Original section/article: 50. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A business operator shall not apply its dominant position in a market 
in any of following ways: 
(1) by unfairly fixing or maintaining the level of purchasing or selling price of a 
good or service; 
(2) by imposing an unfair condition for another business operator wh ich is its 
trading partner in order to limit services, production, purchase, or sale of goods, or to limit 
an opportunity in purchasing or selling goods, receiving or providing services, or seeking 
credits from other business operators; 
(3) by suspending, reduc ing, or limit ing service provision, production, sale, 
delivery, importation into the Kingdom without any appropriate reason, or destroying or 
damaging goods for the purpose of reducing the quantity to b e lower than demand of the 
market; 
(4) by i ntervening in the business operation of other s without any appropriate 
reason.

Section 74. Original section/article: 51. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any business operator conducting a merger which may substantially 
reduce competition in a market under the criteria prescribed in the Commission ’ s 
notification shall notify the outcome of such merger to the Commission within 7 days from 
the date of merging. 
Any business operator planning to conduct a merger which may cause a monopoly 
or result in a dominant position in a market, shall seek permission from the Commission. 
The notification under paragraph one shall indicate the minimum amount of 
market share, sales revenue, capital amount, number of stocks, or assets to which business 
operators shall be subject. 
-16- 
Mergers shall include: 
(1) Mergers among producers, sellers, producers and sellers, or service providers, 
resulting in one business remaining and the others’ business terminating, or a new business 
coming into existence; 
(2) Acquisition of all or part of the assets of other business in order to control its 
policy, business administration, direction, or management in accordance with the criteria 
prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
(3) Acquisition of all or part of the stocks of the other business, whether directly 
or indirectly, in order to control policy, business administration, direction, or management 
in accordance with the criteria prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
Notification of outcome of a merger under paragraph one, and a request for 
permission, and the permission for a merger under paragraph two , shall be in accordance 
with the criteria, procedure, and conditions prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
The provisions under paragraph one and paragraph two shall not apply to a merger 
conducted in order to adjust the internal structure of a business operator related to each 
other due to a policy or commanding power as prescribed in the Commission’s notification.

Section 75. Original section/article: 52. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In consideration of granting a permission under

Section 76. Original section/article: 51. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph 
two, the Commission shall complete the procedure within 90 days from the request’s receipt 
date. In case by necessity, such consideration is not completed within the period, an 
extension of not more than 15 days shall be given and the reasons and necessit y for an 
extension of the consideration shall be recorded. 
The Commission shall consider granting a permission in recognition of valid 
business-related necessity , benefit in supporting a business operator, not causing severe 
damage to the economy, and no impact on the essential benefits consumers are entitled to 
as a whole. 
In a case where a permission order is granted, the Commission may set a time 
period or any other condition for the business operator which is granted the permission to 
follow. 
The Commission shall indicate reasons for granting or not granting a permission 
to merge covering both factual and legal aspects of the case. The Commissioners shall sign 
the order and

Section 77. Original section/article: 61. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph two shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
The business operator receiving a notification of such order , if in disagreement 
with it, may file a lawsuit in an administrative court within 60 days from the date the order 
is notified.

Section 78. Original section/article: 53. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A business operator granted permission to merge shall undertake it in 
accordance with the time period and conditions set out in the permission, as prescribed by 
the Commission. 
-17- 
In case there is a violation or conduct not in accordance with paragraph one, the 
Commission shall have the power to withdraw the permission order in whole or in part and 
may impose a time period for the business operator to take action accordingly.

Section 79. Original section/article: 54. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any business operators competing with each other in the same market 
shall not jointly undertake any conduct which monopolize s, reduces, or restrict s 
competition in that market in one of the following ways: 
(1) to fix, whether direct or indirectly, purchasing or selling price, or any trading 
conditions that affect the price of goods or services; 
(2) to limit the quantity of goods or services that each busines s operator will 
produce, purchase, sell, or provide, as agreed; 
(3) to knowingly establish an agreement or conditions in order for one side to win 
an auction or to win in a bid of goods or services or in order for another side not to enter 
an auction or a bid of goods or services; 
(4) to allocate areas in which each business operator will sell, or reduce a sale or 
purchase goods or services, or allocate purchasers or sellers to or from which each business 
operator will sell or purchase good s or service s under the condition that other business 
operators shall not purchase or sell those goods or services. 
The provisions under paragraph one shall not apply to the conduct of business 
operators related to each other due to a policy or commanding power as prescribed in the 
Commission’s notification.

Section 80. Original section/article: 55. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Business operators shall not jointly undertake conduct which 
monopolizes, reduces or restricts competition in a market in one of the following ways: 
(1) to establish conditions referred to under

Section 81. Original section/article: 54. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
( 1) , ( 2) , or ( 4) among 
business operators which are not competitors in the same market; 
(2) to reduce the quality of goods or services to a condition lower than that 
previously produced, sold, or provided; 
(3) to appoint or assign any one person to exclusively sell the same good s or 
provide the same services, or of the same type; 
(4) to set conditions or practices for purchasing or producing goods or services so 
that the practice follows what is agreed; 
(5) to enter joint agreements in other manners as prescribed in the Commission’s 
notification.

Section 82. Original section/article: 56. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The provisions under

Section 83. Original section/article: 55. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall not apply to one of the 
following situations, where: 
(1) the conduct of business operators is related to each other due to a policy or 
commanding power as prescribed in the Commission’s notification; 
(2) the joint business agreement is for the purpose of developing production, 
distribution of goods, and promotion of technical or economic progress; 
-18- 
(3) the joint agreement is in the pattern of contracts between business operators 
of different levels, in which one side grants the r ight in good s or services, trademark s, 
business operational methods, or business operation support, and the other side is granted 
rights, with a duty to pay charges, fees, or other remunerations for the rights granted; 
(4) the agreement type or business format is prescribed in a ministerial regulation 
on the Commissions’ advice. 
A joint agreement under paragraphs (2) and (3) shall not result in any limitation 
exceeding what is the necessary in order to achieve the benefits mentioned above, shall not 
cause a mon opoly power or substantially restrict competition in a market, and impact on 
consumers shall be considered.

Section 84. Original section/article: 57. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: No business operator shall undertake any conduct resulting in damage 
on other business operators in one of the following ways: 
(1) by unfairly obstructing the business operation of other business operators; 
(2) by unfairly utilizing superior market power or superior bargaining power; 
(3) by unfairly set ting trading conditions that restrict or prevent the business 
operation of others; 
(4) by conduct in other ways prescribed in the Commission’s notification.

Section 85. Original section/article: 58. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: No business operator shall carry out a legal act or enter a contract with 
a business operator in a foreign country without appropriate justification, where that action 
will result in a monopoly conduct or unfairly restrict trade, as well as cause serious harm 
to the economy and consumers’ benefits as a whole.

Section 86. Original section/article: 59. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In order to facilitate business operation s, a business operator may 
submit a request to the Commission to consider the following matters: 
(1) the conduct of a business operator that has a dominant power in a market under

Section 87. Original section/article: 50. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
(2) the business operation having a nature pursuant to

Section 88. Original section/article: 58. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
; 
Submission of a request under paragraph one shall be in accordance w ith criteria 
and methods prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
In consideration of a request under paragraph one, the Commission may impose 
any condition which the business operator must follow in order to comply with this Act. 
The Commission’s decision shall be binding only on the requester and in the scope 
and time period as prescribed by the Commission . If, afterwards, it appears to the 
Commission that the information received from the requester which is used in the 
Commission’s consideration, is not substantially accurate nor complete, or the requesting 
business operator does not comply with the conditions prescribed by the Commission under 
paragraph three, the Commission shall withdraw its decision and notify the business 
operator. 
-19-

Section 89. Original section/article: 60. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In a case where the Commission has sufficient evidence to believe 
that a business operator has violated or will violate

Section 90. Original section/article: 58. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the Commission shall have the power to 
make an order in writing to instruct that business operator to suspend, stop, or correct or 
change such conduct . This shall be in accordance with criteria, methods, conditions, and 
the time period prescribed by the Commission. 
In issuing an order under paragraph one, the Commission may impose any 
necessary conditions required in order to achieve the purposes of this Act. 
The business operator receiving the notification of such order under paragraph one, 
who disagrees with such order, shall have a right to file a lawsuit in an administrative court 
within 60 days from the date of order’s receipt.

Section 91. Original section/article: 61. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In issuing an order under

Section 92. Original section/article: 60. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the Commission shall indicate 
the reasons for such order covering both factual information and legal issues along with the 
endorsement of the Commissioners who considered such matters. 
Notification of the order under paragraph one shall be carried out within 7 days 
from the date of the Commission’s having issued the order. The provisions under

Section 93. Original section/article: 66. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 94. Original section/article: 62. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person receiving an order under

Section 95. Original section/article: 60. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall act according 
to such order, unless the administrative court issues a judgment or an order of stay of 
execution or order to withdraw the Commission’s order. 
CHAPTER 4 
OFFICERS

Section 96. Original section/article: 63. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing their duties under this Act, officers shall have the 
following powers: 
(1) to issue a subpoena for any person to give an oral presentation and provide 
factual information or provide an explanation in writing or to send accounts, registrations, 
documents or any evidence for examination or consideration; 
(2) to enter places and venues of operation, production, sale, purchase, storage of 
goods, service provision of a business operator or any person , or other places where it is 
reasonably believed that there is a violation of provisions under this Act in order to conduct 
an examination under this Act to search and seize , or gather documents, accounts, 
registrations, or other evidence for the benefit of examination and proceeding with a case 
under this Act; 
In this case, officers shall have the power to inquire into factual information 
or call for accounts, registrations, documents or other evidence from business operators or 
relevant persons, as well as instruct any person on the premises to act as necessary. 
-20- 
(3) to collect or bring a good in the required quantity as a sample for examination 
or analysis without paying for the good . This shall be carried out in accordance with the 
criteria prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
In case of (2), if it is a search pursuant to the Criminal Procedure Code, there shall 
be a search warrant unless there is another cause to believe that the process of getting a 
search warrant may be too slow and documents or such evidence may be removed, hid, 
destroyed or transformed, in which case the officers shall proceed to search, seize, or gather 
documents or evidence related to an offence without a prior search warrant. However, the 
Criminal Procedure Code shall be followed. Beginning a search at night shall be prohibited 
unless it is an operational time relevant to the place being searched.

Section 97. Original section/article: 64. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing the duties of officers, relevant persons shall facilitate 
those officers as appropriate.

Section 98. Original section/article: 65. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing their duties, an officer shall present his or her 
identification card to relevant persons. 
The identification card shall conform to the format prescribed in the Commission’s 
notification.

Section 99. Original section/article: 66. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In sending a letter pursuant to

Section 100. Original section/article: 63. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
(1), the provisions regarding 
notifications under the Administrative Procedural Law shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 101. Original section/article: 67. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing duties under this Act, officers shall be officers under 
the Criminal Code.

Section 102. Original section/article: 68. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In performing dutie s under this Act, officers shall have the same 
powers as those of administrative officers or police officers under the Criminal Procedure 
Code. 
CHAPTER 5 
FILING OF LAWSUITS FOR DAMAGE

Section 103. Original section/article: 69. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: A person receiving damages due to a violation of

Section 104. Original section/article: 58. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, shall have a right to 
file a lawsuit for damage from a violator of the law. 
In filing a lawsuit for damage under paragraph one, the Consumer Protection 
Commission, or associations or fou ndations that the Consumer Protection Commission 
recognizes under the law on consumer protection, shall have a right to file a lawsuit for 
damage on behalf of consumers or members of the associations or foundations, as the case 
may be.

Section 105. Original section/article: 70. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In filing a lawsuit for damage under

Section 106. Original section/article: 69. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, if the lawsuit has not 
been filed within the time period of one year from the date the person suffering damage 
-21- 
knows or should have known the cause of such damage, the right to bring the case to the 
court shall lapse. 
CHAPTER 6 
PUNISHMENTS 
PART 1 
CRIMINAL PUNISHMENTS

Section 107. Original section/article: 71. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 108. Original section/article: 43. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be subject to a 
term of imprisonment of not more than one year or a fine of not more than 100,000 Baht 
or both.

Section 109. Original section/article: 72. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 110. Original section/article: 54. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
sh all be subject to a 
term of imprisonment of not more than two years or a fine of not more than ten percent of 
the turnover in the year of the offence, or both. 
In a case where it is an offence committed in the first year of the business 
operation, the person shall be subject to a term of imprisonment of not more than two years 
and a fine of not more than 1 million Baht, or both.

Section 111. Original section/article: 73. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person not complying with a summon s document from officers 
under

Section 112. Original section/article: 63. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
(10) shall be subject to a term of imprisonment of not more than three 
months or a fine of not more than 5,000 Baht, or both.

Section 113. Original section/article: 74. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person obstructing officers in the p erformance of their duties 
under

Section 114. Original section/article: 63. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
(2) or (3) shall be subject to a term of imprisonment of not more than one 
year or a fine of not more than 20,000 Baht, or both.

Section 115. Original section/article: 75. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person not facilitating officers under

Section 116. Original section/article: 64. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be subject 
to a term of imprisonment of not more than one month or a fine of not more than 2,000 
Bath, or both.

Section 117. Original section/article: 76. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person revealing factual information regardi ng the business or 
operation of a business operator that is factual information normally reserved and not 
revealed by a business operator and was received or known due to performance of duties 
under this Act, shall be subject to an imprisonment of not more than one year or a fine of 
not more than 100,000 Baht, or both. There is an exception to this case when the disclosure 
is in accordance with the performance of government dut y or for the benefit of 
investigations, inquiries, case proceedings, or the operation of the Office. 
Any person receiving or knowing any factual information from the person under 
paragraph one and revealing that information in a manner that will likely damage any 
person, shall be subject to the same penalties.

Section 118. Original section/article: 77. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In the case where an offender is a legal person and if such offence of 
that legal person is committed under instruction or through the conduct of a director, 
-22- 
manager, or any person responsible for the operation of such legal person, or in a case 
where that person has the duty to instruct or perform some conduct but fails to instruct or 
perform the conduct causing that legal person to commit an offence, such person shall also 
be subject to a punishment as prescribed for that particular offence.

Section 119. Original section/article: 78. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person suffering damage has the right to file a complaint of an 
offence under

Section 120. Original section/article: 72. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
to the Commission for its consideration of the matter under this 
Act, however, no right is provided to the person suffering damage to file a criminal lawsuit 
directly by himself or herself.

Section 121. Original section/article: 79. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: For all offences under this Act, the Commission shall have the power 
to settle cases. In executing such power, the Commission may assign the Secretary-General 
to act on the Commission’s behalf. 
When the alleged person pays the fine for the amount of settlement within the 
required period, it shall be deemed that the case is terminated under the provisions of the 
Criminal Procedure Code. 
The a mount of fine to settle cases shall be determined according to criteria, 
methods, and conditions prescribed in the Commission’s notification. 
PART 2 
ADMINISTRATIVE PUNISHMENTS

Section 122. Original section/article: 80. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 123. Original section/article: 51. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph one, shall be subject to an 
administrative fine of not more than 200,000 Baht and a further fine of not more than 
10,000 Baht per day for the duration or the period the violation occurred.

Section 124. Original section/article: 81. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 125. Original section/article: 51. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph two or not complying 
with

Section 126. Original section/article: 53. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be subject to an administrative fine of not more than 0 .5 percent of 
transaction value of the merger.

Section 127. Original section/article: 82. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 128. Original section/article: 58. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, shall be 
subject to an administrative fine of not more than 10 percent of the turnover in the year of 
offence. 
In a case where it is an offence committed in the first year of the business 
operation, the person committing the offence shall be subject to an administrative fine of 
not more than 1 million Baht.

Section 129. Original section/article: 83. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Any person violating

Section 130. Original section/article: 60. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be subject to an administrative 
fine of not more than 6 million Baht and a further fine of not more than 300,000 Baht per 
day when the violation continues.

Section 131. Original section/article: 84. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In cases where an offender subject to an administrative fine is a legal 
person, if such offence of that legal person is committed under instruction or through the 
conduct of a director, manager, or any person responsib le for the operation of such legal 
-23- 
person, or in a case where that person has the duty to instruct or perform some conduct but 
fails to instruct or perform the conduct causing that legal person to commit an offence, such 
person shall also be subject to a punishment as prescribed for that particular offence.

Section 132. Original section/article: 85. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: In considering the issuance of an order to impose an administrative 
fine the Commission shall consider the seriousness of the offense first. 
In a case where the person subject to an administrative fine does not pay that fine, 
the provisions related to an administrative order ’ s execution under the Law on 
Administrative Procedure shall apply mutatis mutandis. In a case where there is no officer 
to execute such an order, or there is a person but he or she is unable to proceed with the 
execution of the order, the Commission shall have the power to file a lawsuit in an 
administrative court in order to enforce the payment of the fine . In this case, if the 
administrative court views that such an order for the payment of the fine is lawful, the 
administrative court shall have the power to consider and make a judgment and enforce 
seizure or take hold of properties to sell by auction to pay for the fine imposed. 
TRANSITIONAL CHAPTER

Section 133. Original section/article: 86. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Trade Competition Commission under the Trade Competition 
Act B.E. 2542 which holds its position on the day before the date this Act is effective, shall 
perform its duties under this Act until the appointment of the Trade Competition 
Commission under this Act . The process of application and selection of the Trade 
Competition Commission under this Act shall be completed within 270 days from the date 
this Act is effective.

Section 134. Original section/article: 87. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: The Director- General of the Department of Internal Trade shall 
perform the duties of the Secretary-General until the appointment of the Secretary-General 
under this Act. The process of appointing the Secretary-General shall be completed within 
180 days from the date of the first appointment of the Trade Competition Commission.

Section 135. Original section/article: 88. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: For the work of the Office to proceed efficiently, the Minister may 
approve for government officers in the Ministry of Commerce to assist with the work of 
the Office temporarily for not more than two terms, and each term for not more than two 
years. All government officers shall receive salaries from their original office.

Section 136. Original section/article: 90. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, government officers performing their duties in 
the Office of the Trade Competition Commission under the Trade Competition Act B .E. 
2542 holding their positions on the date after the period determined under

Section 137. Original section/article: 90. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, shall 
be government officers of the Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce , and 
shall perform duties in the Office . Such performance of duties shall be considered the 
performance of civil service duties for the Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of 
Commerce. 
-24- 
Government officers performing duties in the Office under paragraph one shall 
receive a salary or wage, as well as others rights and benefits previously received, until he 
or she is assigned and appointed for a position in the Office. Such government officer shall 
not be appointed and receive a salary or wage lower than the amount previously received.

Section 138. Original section/article: 90. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Government officers under

Section 139. Original section/article: 89. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
who are willing to transfer to 
become an official of the Office shall exercise the right by informing of their intention in 
writing to their supervisor within 60 days from the date this Act take effects. Those who do 
not inform of their intention within such period shall return to perform their duties in the 
Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce. 
Assignments and appointments of government officers who are willing to transfer 
to become an official in any position in the Office under paragraph one, shall be in 
accordance with the capacity, qualification, and salary or wage rates , prescribed by the 
Commission. 
The budget for salaries and wages of government officers of the Department of 
Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce, who are assigned and appointed as official s of the 
Office under paragraph two, shall be transferred to the Office from the date of assignment 
and appointment. 
Government officers who are willing to transfer to become an official under 
paragraph one shall be deemed resigned from the civil service du e to termination or 
dissolution of such position under the law on government pension s or the law on the 
government pension fund, as the case may be.

Section 140. Original section/article: 91. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: Operations, properties, rights, duties, debts, and the budget of the 
Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce that are related to the work of the 
Office of Trade Competition Commission, Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of 
Commerce, shall be transferred to the Office.

Section 141. Original section/article: 92. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
: All the ministerial regulations, notifications, criteria, or regulations 
issued under the Trade Competition Act B.E. 2542 that are effective on the date before this 
Act takes effect, shall still remain effective as long as they do not conflict or contradict this 
Act and until ministerial regulations, notifications, or regulations issued under this Act are 
effective. 
The process of issuing ministerial regulations, notifications, or regulations under 
paragraph one shall be completed within 365 days from the date this Act becomes effective. 
If this process is not completed within the specified time, the Minister shall report reasons 
of non-completion to the Cabinet. 
Countersigning the Royal Command 
General Prayut Chan-o-cha 
Prime Minister 
-25- 
Rates of Fees 
(1) Request for a permission to conduct a 
merger under

Section 142. Original section/article: 51. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph two 
250,000 Baht per a request 
(2) Request for a consideration under

Section 143. Original section/article: 59. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
50,000 Baht per a request 
(3) Fee for copying or certifying a copy of 
orders under

Section 144. Original section/article: 52. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
, considerations 
under

Section 145. Original section/article: 60. Source: Trade Competition Act B.E. 2560 (2017).
100 Baht per page 
-26- 
Notes:- The reasons to pass this Act are: the Trade Competition Act B.E. 2542, is due to its 
having been in force for a long time resulting in some provisions being inconsistent with 
the pattern and conduct of business which has changed over time . In addition, regulation 
regarding competition at present is under the power of the Office of Trade Competition 
Commission, an office established inside the Department of Internal Trade, Ministry of 
Commerce, making the work process inflexible and lacking independence, rendering the 
regulations on business operation to have free and fair competition are not as efficient as it 
should be. Therefore, it is appropriate to improve measures in regulating competition to 
become more efficient under an authority that is flexible and independent, consistent with 
development of patterns and behaviors in business operations which have been changing 
over time. It is thus necessary to pass this Act.
