Thailand source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956)
Category: Core codes
Source URL: https://www.icnl.org/wp-content/uploads/Thailand_CrimCodeThai.pdf
Note: English reference translation hosted by ICNL.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
This Act is be called the "Act Promulgating the Criminal Code, B.E. 2499."

Section 2. Original section/article: 2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
This Act shall come into force as and from the day following the date of its publication in the 
Government Gazette.

Section 3. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The Criminal Code annexed to this Act shall come into force as and from the 1st. January, B.E. 
2500.

Section 4. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Upon coming into force of the Criminal Code, the Criminal Law in B.E. 2451 shall be repealed.

Section 5. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Upon coming into force of the Criminal Code, in case of any law determines the punishment by 
referring to the punishment of the petty offences in the Criminal Law in B.E. 2451, it shall be deemed that such 
law refers to the punishment as follows:
If it refers to the punishment Class 1, it means fined not exceeding one hundred Baht;
If it refers to the punishment Class 2, it means fined not exceeding five hundred Baht;
If it refers to the punishment Class 3, it means imprisonment not exceeding ten days or fined not exceeding 
five hundred Baht, or both;
If is refers to the punishment Class 4, it means imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding 
one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 6. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Upon coming into force of the Criminal Code, in the matter of imprisonment in lieu of fined under 
any law, the provisions of the Criminal Code shall apply, regardless of whatever may have been provided by 
such and such law; but, as for the offences committed before the enforcement of the Criminal Code, the 
confinement shall not exceed one year for the punishment of one count, and two years for the punishment of 
several counts.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 7. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of safety measures according to

Section 8. Original section/article: 46. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code, the provisions of the 
Criminal Procedure Code shall apply as if it is a criminal offence, but the custody in the inquiring stage shall 
not exceed forty-eight hours as from the time when the arrested person arrives at the Office of the 
Administrative or Police officer, but the time taken for ordinary journey in bringing the arrested person to the 
Court shall not be included in such period of forty-eight hours.

Section 9. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Upon coming into force of the Criminal Code, whenever the provisions of any law refer to the 
Criminal Law in B.E. 2451, or the provisions of the Criminal Law in B.E. 2451, it shall be deemed that the 
provisions of such law refer to the Criminal Code, or the provisions of the Criminal Code in the Section 
implying the same sense, as the case may be.
Counter - signature:
Field – Marshal P. Pibulsongkarm
President of the Council of Ministers
Remark: The reason of promulgating this Act viz Penal Law in R.S. 127 to have been promulgated long since 
and tohave been amended by several points to be dispersed and so being expedient to be cleared up and to 
be brought into the form of the single Criminal Code.
Moreover, to come to pass that some rules and procedures improved high to epoch and conception of 
international countries, and so, in the present time, some original rules are out of date, and expedient to be re 
— improved to be in line with administrative principle of democracy regime.
THE CRIMINAL CODE
BOOK I GENERAL PROVISIONS
TITLE I
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO
GENERAL OFFENCES
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS

Section 10. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In This Code:
(1) "To commit an act dishonestly" means to do an act in order to procure, for himself or the other person, 
any advantage to which he is not entitled by law;
(2) "Public way" means a land or waterway used by the public for traffic, and includes a railway or tramway 
used for public conveyance;
(3) "Public place" means a place to which the public has a right of entry;
(4) “Dwelling place” means a place used for dwelling, such as a house, shed, vessel, or floating house in 
which a human being dwells, it also include the precinct of the place used for dwelling, whether it be 
enclosed or not;
www.thailawonline.com
(5) "Arm" includes anything which is not a weapon by nature, but which is used or intended to be used as 
a weapon for causing grievous bodily harm;
(6) "To commit an act of violence" means to do an act of violence against the body or mind of a person, 
whether it be by physical force or by any other means, and includes any act causing any person to be in a 
state of being unable to resist, whether it be by using drug causing intoxication, by hypnotism or by any other 
similar means;
(7) "Document" means any paper or other material for expressing the meaning by letters, figures, plan or 
an other design, whether it be by way of printing, photographing or any other means, which is evidence of 
such meaning;
(8) "Official document" means a document drawn up or authenticated by an official in the course of his 
duty, and includes also a. copy of such document authenticated by an official in the course of his duty;
(9) "Document of right" means a document evidencing the creation, modification, transfer, reservation or 
extinction of a right;
(10) "Signature" includes a finger-print and mark put to a document by a person in lieu of his signature;
(11) "Night" means the interval between sunset and sunrise;
(12) "Custody" means the restraint, keeping in custody, detention, confinement or imprisonment;
(13) "Ransom" means a property of benefit demanded or given in exchange for the liberty of the person who 
is taken away, held or confined;
(14) "Electronics Card" means that:
(A) Any of documents or materials in any description whatever that issuer having issued to the person 
entitled to use, irrespective of whether the specified name or not, by data or cipher noted by applying and 
using the ways of electron, electricity, long wave or any way in the same nature including to apply and use the 
ways of fight or magnet to be sense appeared by any of letters, figures, ciphers or symbols either able to be 
seen or not to be seen by the naked eyes;
(B) Data, cipher, account number, any of set-numbers of electron or figures which issuer having issued to 
the person entitled to use by any of documents or materials not to be issued, but there is the way to use in the 
same manner as (A) ; or
(C) Anything else to be used in corroboration of the electronic data for showing the relationship between 
person and electronic data by the object for specifying the owned person.

Section 11. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act (No. 17), B.E. 2547.
CHAPTER 2
APPLICATION OF CRIMINAL LAWS

Section 12. Original section/article: 2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
A person shall be criminally punished only when the act done by such person is provided to be an 
offence and the punishment is defined by the law in force at the time of the doing of such act, and the 
punishment to be inflicted upon the offender shall be that provided by the law.
www.thailawonline.com
If, according to the law as provided afterwards, such act is no more an offence, the person doing such act 
shall be relieved from being an offender; and, if there is a final judgment inflicting the punishment, such 
person shall be deemed as not having ever been convicted by the judgment for committing such offence. If, 
however, such person is still undergoing the punishment, the punishment shall forthwith terminate.

Section 13. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the law in force at the time of committing the offence is different from that in force after the time of 
committing the offence, the law which is, in any way, more favorable to the offender, shall be applied, unless 
the case is final. But, in the case where it is final as follows:
(1) If the offender has not yet undergone the punishment, or is undergoing the punishment, and the 
punishment determined by the judgment is heavier than that provided by the law afterwards, when it appears 
to the Court from the file of the case, or when the offender, the legal representative or guardian of such 
person, or the Public Prosecutor makes a request, the Court shall re-determine the punishment according to 
the law as provided afterwards. In re-determining the punishment by the Court, if it appears that the offender 
has undergone a part of the punishment, the Court, when having regard to the punishment as provided by the 
law afterwards, may, if it thinks fit, determine less punishment than the minimum punishment as provided by 
the law afterwards, if any, or if it is of opinion that the punishment already undergone by the offender is 
sufficient, the Court may release the offender;
(2) if the Court has passed the judgment of death upon the offender, but, according to the law as provided 
afterwards, the punishment to be inflicted upon the offender is not as high as death, the execution of the 
offender shall be suspended, and it shall be deemed that the punishment of death according to the judgment 
has been changed to be the highest punishment to be inflicted according to the law as provided afterwards.

Section 14. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing an offence within the Kingdom, shall be punished according to law.
The offence committed in any Thai vessel or airplane irrespective of any place of Thai vessel or airplane shall 
be deemed as being committed within the Kingdom.

Section 15. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any offence is even partially committed within the Kingdom, or the consequence of the 
commission of which, as intended by the offender, occurs within the Kingdom, or by the nature of the 
commission of which, the consequence resulting therefrom should occur within the Kingdom, or it could be 
foreseen that the consequence would occur within the Kingdom, it shall be deemed that such offence is 
committed within the Kingdom.
In case of preparation or attempt to commit any act provided by the law to be an offence, even though it is 
done outside the Kingdom, if the consequence of the doing of such act, when carried through to the stage of 
accomplishment of the offence, will occur within the Kingdom, it shall be deemed that the preparation or 
attempt to commit such offence is done within the Kingdom.

Section 16. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any offence has been committed within the Kingdom, or has been deemed by this Code as being 
committed within the Kingdom, even though the act of a co-principal, a supporter or an instigator in the 
offence has been committed outside the Kingdom it shall be deemed that the principal, supporter or instigator 
has committed the offence within the Kingdom.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 17. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to commit the following offences outside the Kingdom shall be punished in the Kingdom, 
namely:
(1) Offences relating to the Security of the Kingdom as provided in Sections 107 to 129;
(1/1) The offence in respect of terrorization as prescribed by

Section 18. Original section/article: 135/4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(2) Offences Relating to Counterfeiting and Alteration as provided in Sections 240 to 249,

Section 19. Original section/article: 266. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(3) and (4);
(2 bis) Offences Relating to Sexuality as provided in

Section 20. Original section/article: 283. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(3) Offence Relating to Robbery as provided in

Section 21. Original section/article: 339. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, and Offence Relating to Gang-Robbery as 
provided in

Section 22. Original section/article: 340. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, which is committed on the high seas.

Section 23. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(1/1) amended by the Act Amending the Criminal Code, 8.E.2546,

Section 24. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act (No. 14), B.E. 2540.

Section 25. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits an offence outside the Kingdom shall be punished in the Kingdom, provided 
that: and, provided further that the offence committed be any of the following namely:
(a) The offender be a Thai person, and there be a request for punishment by the Government of the 
country where the offence has occurred or by the injured person; or
(b) The offender be an alien, and the Thai Government or a Thai person be the injured person, and there 
be a request for punishment by the injured person;
If such offence to be the offence specified as following shall be punished within the Kingdom namely:
(1) Offences Relating to Cause Public Dangers as provided in

Section 26. Original section/article: 221. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to 
223 excepting the case relating to the first paragraph of

Section 27. Original section/article: 233. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to 236 only when it is the case to be punished according to

Section 28. Original section/article: 238. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(2) Offences Relating to Documents as provided in

Section 29. Original section/article: 268. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
excepting the case relating to

Section 30. Original section/article: 269. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(211) Offence Relating to the Electronic Card according to be prescribed by

Section 31. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act (No. 17), B.E. 2547.
(3) Offences Relating to Sexuality as provided in

Section 32. Original section/article: 285. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
only for the 
case relating to

Section 33. Original section/article: 276. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(4) Offences Against Life as provided in Sections 288 to 290;
(5) Offences Against Body as provided in Sections 295 to 298;
(6) Offences of Abandonment of Children, Sick or Aged Persons as provided in Sections 306 to 308;
(7) Offences Against Liberty as provided in

Section 34. Original section/article: 310. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, Sections 312 to 315, and 
Sections 317 to 320;
(8) Offences of Theft and Snatching as provided in Sections 334 to 336;
(9) Offences of Extortion, Blackmail, Robbery and Gang-Robbery as provided in Sections 337 to 340;
(10) Offences of Cheating and Fraud as provided in Sections 341 to 344,

Section 35. Original section/article: 347. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
www.thailawonline.com
(11) Offences of Criminal Misappropriation as provided in Sections 352 to 354;
(12) Offences of Receiving Stolen Property as provided in

Section 36. Original section/article: 357. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(13) Offences of Mischief as provided in Sections 358 to 360.

Section 37. Original section/article: 9. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Thai Government official commits the offence as prescribed from

Section 38. Original section/article: 205. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
outside the Kingdom shall be punished in the Kingdom.

Section 39. Original section/article: 10. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to do an act outside the Kingdom, which is an offence according to various Sections as 
specified in

Section 40. Original section/article: 9. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall not be punished again in the Kingdom for the 
doing of such act, if:
(1) There be a final judgment of a foreign. Court acquitting such person; or
(2) There be a judgment of a foreign Court convicting such person, and such person has already passed 
over the punishment.
If the sentenced person has suffered the punishment for the doing of such act according to the judgment of 
the foreign Court, but such person has not yet passed over the punishment, the Court may inflict less 
punishment to any extent than that provided by the law for such offence, or may not inflict any punishment at 
all, by having regard to the punishment already suffered by such person.

Section 41. Original section/article: 11. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits an offence within the Kingdom, or commits an offence deemed by this Code as 
being committed within the Kingdom, and, if such person has suffered the punishment in whole or in part for 
such act according to the judgment of the foreign Court, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent 
than that provided by the law for such offence, or may not inflict any punishment at all, by having regard to the 
punishment already suffered by such person.
In case of a person, committing an offence within the Kingdom, or committing an offence deemed by this 
Code as being committed within the Kingdom, has been prosecuted in the foreign Court at the request of the 
Thai Government, such person shall not be punished again in the Kingdom for such offence, if:
(1) There be a final judgment of the foreign Court acquitting such person; or
(2) There be a judgment of the foreign Court convicting such person, and such person has already 
passed over the punishment.

Section 42. Original section/article: 12. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The measures of safety are applicable to any person only when there are provisions of law for 
their application, and the law to be applied shall be the law in force at the time when the Court passes 
judgment.

Section 43. Original section/article: 13. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the provisions of the law as prescribed afterwards, any measure of safety has been repealed, 
and any person is still subjected such measure safety, the Court shall give the order repressing the 
application of such measure of safety when the file of a case appears to the Court, or when such person, legal 
representative of such person or guardian of such person or the Public Prosecutor makes the request.

Section 44. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of any person is subject to any measure of safety, and the provisions of the law as 
provided afterwards modify the conditions for the application of such measure of safety with the result that it 
may not be applicable to the case of such person, or that it may be applicable, but the application of such 
measure of safety according to the provisions of the law as provided afterwards is more favorable to such 
www.thailawonline.com
person, the Court shall have the power to give order, as it thinks fit, when it appears to the Court from the file 
of the case, or when such person, the legal representative or guardian of such person, or the Public 
Prosecutor makes a request to the Court to revoke the application of such measure of safety, or makes a 
request to take the consequence according to the provisions of such law, as the case may be.

Section 45. Original section/article: 15. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever, according to the provisions of the law as provided afterwards, any punishment has 
been changed to be a measure of safety, and there is a judgment inflicting such punishment on any person, it 
shall be deemed that the inflicted punishment is also a measure of safety.
In the case mentioned in the first paragraph, if the punishment is not yet inflicted upon such person, or such 
person is still undergoing the punishment, the measure of safety shall be applied to such person further. If, 
according to the provisions of the law as provided afterwards, there is any condition for giving order for the 
application of the measure of safety which may not be applicable to such person, or may be applicable but 
the application of the measure of safety according to the provisions of the law as provided afterwards is more 
favorable to such person, the Court shall have the power to give order, as it thinks fit, when it appears to the 
Court from the file of the case, or when such person, the legal representative or guardian of such person, or 
the Public Prosecutor makes a request to the Court to revoke the application of the measure of safety, or 
makes a request to take the consequence according to the provisions of such law, as the case may be.

Section 46. Original section/article: 16. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever the Court gives judgment to apply a measure of safety to any person, if it appears 
afterwards to the Court from the submission of such person himself, the legal representative or guardian of 
such person, or the Public Prosecutor that the circumstances concerning the application have changed from 
formerly. the Court may revoke or suspend temporarily the application of the measure of safety to such 
person, as it thinks fit.

Section 47. Original section/article: 17. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The provisions in Book 1 of this Code shall be applied in the case of offence according to the 
other laws also, provided that such laws will have been prescribed otherwise.
CHAPTER 3
PUNISHMENTS AND MEASURES OF SAFETY
PART 1
PUNISHMENTS

Section 48. Original section/article: 18. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Punishments for inflicting upon the offenders are as follows:
(1) Death;
(2) Imprisonment;
(3) Confinement;
(4) Fine;
(5) Forfeiture of property.
The capital punishment and life imprisonment shall be not enforced to offender less than eighteen years of 
age.
www.thailawonline.com
In case of offender less than eighteen years of age has committed the offence to be punished with death or 
imprisoned for life, the punishment, as aforesaid. shall be deemed as commuted as imprisoned for fifty years.

Section 49. Original section/article: 18. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the second paragraph and the third paragraph, amended by

Section 50. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the 
Criminal Code (No. 16), B.E 2546.

Section 51. Original section/article: 19. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, punished with death, shall be proceeded by spraying an injection or toxin to be death.
The rule and procedure of execution shall go according to regulation designated by Ministry of Justice by its 
publication in the Government Gazette.

Section 52. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 16), B.E. 2546.

Section 53. Original section/article: 20. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
All the offences as determined by the laws to be punished by both imprisonment and fine, if the 
Court deeming advisable will inflict the punishment of imprisonment only.

Section 54. Original section/article: 21. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In calculating the period of imprisonment, a day begun in imprisonment shall be included also 
and shall be counted for a whole day, irrespective of the number of hours.
If the period for calculation is determined in months, a month shall count for thirty days, and, if determined in 
years, it shall be calculated according to the official calendar.
Liberation shall take place on the day following that on which the period of imprisonment terminates.

Section 55. Original section/article: 22. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The punishment of imprisonment shall begin in the day on which the judgment is passed. But, if 
the sentenced person is kept in custody prior to the judgment of the Court, the number of days in custody 
shall be deducted from the period of imprisonment according to the judgment, unless the judgment provides 
otherwise.
In case of the judgment provides otherwise, the punishment of imprisonment according to the judgment, 
when added by the number of days in custody prior to the judgment of the Court in such case, shall not 
exceed the maximum rate of punishment as provided by the law for the committed offence. This shall not, 
however, affect the provisions of

Section 56. Original section/article: 23. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person commits an offence punishable to be imprisoned, and in such case, the Court will 
inflict the punishment of imprisonment not exceed three months, if it does not appear that such person has 
received the punishment of imprisonment previously, or if it appears that such person has received the 
punishment of imprisonment previously but it is the punishment from the offence committed by negligence, or 
by a petty offence, the Court may inflict the punishment of confinement not out of three months on behalf of 
such punishment of imprisonment.

Section 57. Original section/article: 24. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to be under the detention shall be interned in the place for detaining designated by non-
goal, police station, or the place superintending the inquiry official's alleged offender.
The Court may, if it thinks fit, order in the judgment to confine the offender in his own dwelling place, or in the 
dwelling place of another person who consents to accept him, or in any other place where he may be 
confined so as to be suitable to his kind or condition.
If it appears to the Court that the confinement of the detained person in the place to confine according to 
paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 may cause a danger to such person or make the person depending or him for 
subsistence excessive trouble or there is other exceptional circumstance shows that it is not advisable to 
www.thailawonline.com
detain the detained person in the place as aforesaid, the Court will issue an order to detain the detained 
person in other place but not such person's dwelling-house with consent of owner or occupier of the 
premises. In such case, the Court is empowered to designate any condition to detained any the condition to 
the detained person to practice, and if the owner or occupier of the premise as aforesaid consents, the Court 
may issue an order to appoint such person as controller and it shall be deemed that the appointed person is 
the government official according to this Code.

Section 58. Original section/article: 24. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the third paragraph, amended by

Section 59. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No.15), B.E. 
2545.

Section 60. Original section/article: 25. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
A person inflicted with the punishment of confinement in a determined place shall receive 
maintenance from such place. But, subject to the regulations of the place, he is entitled to obtain food from 
outside at his own expense, to use his own clothes, to receive visitors for at least one hour in a day and to 
receive and send letters.
A person inflicted with the punishment of confinement must work according to the rules, regulations and 
discipline. If he desires to do other work, he shall be permitted to select according to the category of work that 
he is willing to do, provided that it is not contrary to the rules, regulations, discipline or safety of such place.

Section 61. Original section/article: 26. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the person punished by the confinement is confined in own dwelling place or in the dwelling 
place of the other person consenting to accept such person, such confined person is entitled to carry on own 
profession or occupation in the aforesaid place. For this purpose, the Court may determine the conditions to 
the confined person to do anything or not, as the Court deems expedient.

Section 62. Original section/article: 27. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If doing the detained person under

Section 63. Original section/article: 23. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
has been detained, it appears to the Court itself or 
it appears to the Court according to the statement of Public Prosecutor or occupier of the premise for 
detention that:
(1) The detained person in violation of rule, regulation or discipline of the place for detention;
(2) The detained person in non-fulfillment of the conditions designated by the Court;
(3) The detained person to be adjudged to inflict the imprisonment.
The Court may change the detention into imprisonment with the terms designated as the Court deems 
expedient, but it must be not out of the time designated by detention which the detained person must receive 
thenceforward.

Section 64. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 15), B.E. 2545.

Section 65. Original section/article: 28. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person has inflicted with the punishment of fine, such person must pay the money-mouth as 
determined by the judgment to the Court.

Section 66. Original section/article: 29. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If any person inflicted with the punishment of fine fails to pay the fine within thirty days as from the 
day on which the Court has passed judgment, the property of such person shall be seized to pay for the fine, 
or else such person shall be confined in lieu of fine. But, if the Court has reasonable cause to suspect that 
such person is likely to evade the payment of the fine, the Court may order such person to find security, or 
may order such person to be confined in lieu of fine in the near time.
The provisions in the second paragraph of

Section 67. Original section/article: 24. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall not apply to the confinement in lieu of fine.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 68. Original section/article: 30. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the detention on behalf of fine, it shall be taken hold of rate of two hundred Baht per one 
day, and irrespective of whether one offence or several offences, it is prohibited the detention in excess of 
one year period unless in case of the Court gives a judgment on fine as from eight ten thousands Baht 
upwards, the Court will issue an order to detain on behalf of fine as the period of time in excess of one year 
but not out of two years.
In calculation of period of the time the date beginning detention on behalf of fine shall be calculated together, 
and the full day shall be calculated without into consideration of hour amount.
In case of the fined person to be detained before the Court's trial, the day amount when one person to be 
detained shall be deducted from the fined money amount which is deemed the rate of two hundreds Baht per 
one day, unless such person is adjudged and inflicted both imprisonment and fine. In such ease, if the day 
amount, when one person to be detained, must be deducted from the time, when one person imprisoned, 
under

Section 69. Original section/article: 22. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, it shall be deducted before, the rest amount is deducted from fine.
When the fined person has been detained on behalf of fine to be due, that person shall be released on the 
date following the date terminated, if the fine has been paid plenary, one shall be released without delay.

Section 70. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 15), B.E. 2545.

Section 71. Original section/article: 30/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the Court passes a judgment of fine not out of eight ten thousands Baht, the fined 
person is not juristic person and has not the fine, one may file a petition with the Court of First Instance to try a 
case for asking and performing special service or public service on behalf of fine.
In hearing a petition according to the first paragraph, when the court has tried to money condition. Past 
record, nature of the offence of the fined person, it is deemed advisable, the Court will issue an order to such 
person performing social service or public service on behalf of the fine, but all these, subject to probation 
officer, State's authority, State's work-unit, or Organization to have the object performing Social Service, public 
charity or public benefit consenting to take care of one.
In case of the Court issuing an order to the fined person to perform Social Service or public benefit on behalf 
of the fine, the Court shall designate the nature or kind of work, person taking care of work, date beginning 
work, period of work and hour amount deemed as one day work, but all these, by taking into consideration of 
sex, age, past record, religion, behavior, intelligence, education, health, mind-condition, temperament, 
occupation, envelopment or the fined person's offence-condition together, and Court will designate any 
condition to the fined person to perform for amending, renewing or protecting such person from committing 
offence again.
If after that, it appears to the Court that the circumstance in respect of Social Service work or Public Interest 
Work of the fined person changed, the Court will change an order designated as deemed advisable.
In determination of period of the hour time on behalf of the fine according to paragraph 3. the provision of

Section 72. Original section/article: 30. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall be enforced mutatis mutandis and in case of the Court does not designate the fined person 
to work thenceforward, the said work must be within the period of two years as from the date beginning work 
designated by the Court.
www.thailawonline.com
On behalf of determination of hour time according to paragraph 3, President of the Supreme Court shall be 
empowered in issuing a judiciary government rule of Court of Justice determining an hour amount deemed as 
one clay-work for Social Service or Public Interest each kind as deemed advisable.

Section 73. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No.15), B.E. 2545.

Section 74. Original section/article: 30/2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If afterwards, the Court issues an order granting the permission under

Section 75. Original section/article: 30/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, it appears 
to the Court itself or according to prosecutor or official's statement that the fined person has enough money to 
pay the fine, in the time to file a petition under

Section 76. Original section/article: 30/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or violates or not to perform according to an order 
or a condition designated by the Court, the Court will revoke an order premising as aforesaid and fine or 
detain on behalf of the fine by deducting work day amount from fined money amount.
In the period of Social Service or Public Interest on behalf of the fine, if the fined person does not desire to the 
said word thenceforward, it may be changed as the fine or detention on behalf of the fine. In this case, the 
Court shall issue an order premising according to petition by deducting a workday amount from the fined 
money amount.

Section 77. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No.15), B.E. 2545.

Section 78. Original section/article: 30/3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The Court's order under

Section 79. Original section/article: 30/2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall come into an end.

Section 80. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No.15), B.E. 2545.

Section 81. Original section/article: 31. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the Court shall pass judgment inflicting the punishment of fine on several offenders for 
the same offence and in the same case, the Court shall inflict the punishment of fine on every individual 
offender.

Section 82. Original section/article: 32. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any property is prescribed by the law that any person makes or processes to be an offence, such 
property shall be forfeited wholly, irrespective of whether it belongs to the offender and there is the person 
inflicted with the punishment according to judgment or not.

Section 83. Original section/article: 33. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
For the forfeiture of a property, the Court shall, besides having the power to forfeit under the law 
as specially provided for that purpose, have the power to forfeit the following properties also, namely:
(1) A property used or possessed for use in the commission of an offence by a person; or
(2) A property acquired by a person through the commission of an offence.
Unless such property belongs to the other person who does not connive at the commission of the offence.

Section 84. Original section/article: 34. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
All properties:
(1) Which have been given under

Section 85. Original section/article: 202. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
; or
(2) Which have been given in order to induce a person to commit an offence, or as a reward to a person 
for committing an offence, shall be forfeited wholly, unless those properties belong to the other person who 
does not connive at the commission of the offence.

Section 86. Original section/article: 35. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The properties forfeited by the Court's judgment shall be vested in the State, the Court may give 
judgment such properties to be rendered useless, or to be destroyed.

Section 87. Original section/article: 36. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the Court has already given order for the forfeiture of the properties according to

Section 88. Original section/article: 34. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, if it appears afterwards by the submission of the real owner that he has not connived 
www.thailawonline.com
at the commission of such offence, the Court shall give order for the return of the properties if such properties 
are still in the possession of the official. But the submission of the real owner shall be made to the Court within 
one year reckoning from the day of the final judgment.

Section 89. Original section/article: 37. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the person who is ordered by the Court to deliver the forfeited property does not deliver it within 
the time determined by the Court, the Court shall have the power to give order as follows:
(1) To seize such property;
(2) To pay its value, or to seize other property of such person to compensate for its value in full; or
(3) In case of the Court is of opinion that such person can deliver the property ordered to be delivered, 
but does not deliver it, or such person can pay its value, but does not pay, the Court shall have the power to 
confine such person until such person complies with the order, but the period of confinement shall not exceed 
one year. But, if, afterwards, it appears to the Court itself or by the submission of such person that such 
person cannot deliver the property or pay its value, the Court may give order to release such person before 
the expiration of such period.

Section 90. Original section/article: 38. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The punishment shall terminate on the death of the offender.
PART 2
MEASURES OF SAFETY

Section 91. Original section/article: 39. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The measures of safety are as follows:
(1) Relegation;
(2) Prohibition to enter a specified area;
(3) To execute a bond with security for keeping the peace;
(4) To restraint in an institution of treatment;
(5) Prohibition to exercise certain occupation.

Section 92. Original section/article: 40. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The relegation is to superintend the habitual offender within the specified area for preventing such 
offender from committing the offence, for reforming one's character, and for training one's occupation.

Section 93. Original section/article: 41. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person who has been sentenced to relegation, or has been sentenced to imprisonment of not 
less than six months for not less than twice, for the following offences:
(1) Offences Relating to Public Peace as provided in Sections 209 to 216;
(2) Offences Relating to Causing Public Dangers as provided in Sections 217 to 224;
(3) Offences Relating to Currencies as provided in Sections 240 to 246;
(4) Offences Relating to Sexuality as provided in Sections 276 to 286;
(5) Offences Causing Death as provided in Sections 288 to 290, and Sections 292 to 294;
(6) Offences Against Body as provided in Sections 295 to 299;
(7) Offences Against Liberty as provided in Sections 309 to 320;
(8) Offences Against Properties as provided in Sections 334 to 340,

Section 94. Original section/article: 357. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
; and, 
within ten years from the day of having passed over the relegation or the punishment, as the case may be, 
www.thailawonline.com
such person commits any of such specified offences again so that the Court sentences such person to 
imprisonment of not less than six months for such offence, the Court may regard such person as a habitual 
criminal and may sentence such person to relegation for not less than three years and not more than ten 
years.
The offence committed by an offender at the time when such offender is not yet over seventeen years of age 
shall not be deemed as an offence to be taken into consideration for relegation according to this Section.

Section 95. Original section/article: 42. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In calculating the period of relegation, the day of passing judgment by the Court shall count as the 
day on which relegation begins, but if there is still the punishment of imprisonment or confinement of be 
undergone by the relegated person, such relegated person shall be imprisoned or confined first, and the day 
following that on which liberation from imprisonment or confinement takes place shall count as the day on 
which relegation begins.
Regarding the period of relegation and the liberation of the relegated person, the provisions of

Section 96. Original section/article: 21. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 97. Original section/article: 43. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
To prosecute for relegation shall be made as the exclusive power of Public Prosecutor, and such 
relegation prosecution may be requested together with the case-prosecution to be empowered to prosecute 
the relegation or such relegation-prosecution may be made afterwards.

Section 98. Original section/article: 44. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Prohibition to enter a specified area is the prohibition to enter a locality or place specified in the 
judgment.

Section 99. Original section/article: 45. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
When any person is given judgment inflicting punishment by the Court, and the Court deems 
expedient to public safety, the Court may, whether there is a request or not, issue the order in that judgment 
that when such person has passed over the punishment according to the judgment, such person shall be 
prohibited to enter the specified area for the period not out of five years.

Section 100. Original section/article: 46. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If it appears to the Court, by the submission of the Public Prosecutor, that any person is likely to 
cause danger to another person or to the property belonging to another person, or if, in the trial of any case, 
the Court will not convict the prosecuted person, but there is reason to believe that the prosecuted person is 
likely to cause danger to another person or to the property belonging to another person, the Court shall have 
the power to order such person to execute a bond in a sum of money not exceeding five thousand Baht, with 
or without security, for keeping the peace during such period as determined by the Court, but not exceeding 
two years.
If such person refuses to execute a bond, or cannot furnish security, the Court shall have the power to order 
such person to be confined until such person executes the bond or furnishes security, but such person shall 
not be confined for more than six months, or the Court may give order prohibiting such person to enter a 
specified area according to

Section 101. Original section/article: 45. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The acts of a child not over seventeen years of age shall not be subject to the provisions of this Section.

Section 102. Original section/article: 47. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the person making a bond according to

Section 103. Original section/article: 46. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
breaks such bond, the Court shall be 
empowered to order the person to pay the money not out of the amount determined in the bond. If such 
person does not pay, the provisions of

Section 104. Original section/article: 30. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall be enforced.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 105. Original section/article: 48. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the Court is of opinion that the liberation of any person having a defective mind, mental disease 
or mental infirmity, who is not punishable, or whose punishment is reduced according to

Section 106. Original section/article: 65. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, will not 
be safe for the public, the Court may give order to send such person to be put under restraint in an institution 
of treatment. This order may, however, be revoked at any time by the Court.

Section 107. Original section/article: 49. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the Court passes the judgment inflicting the punishment of imprisonment on any 
person, or passes judgment that any person is guilty, but the determination of punishment or the infliction of 
punishment is suspended, the Court may, if it is of opinion that such person has committed the offence owing 
to habitual drunkenness or harmful habit forming drug addiction, determine in the judgment that such person 
shall not take liquor or harmful habit forming drug, or both of them within a period not exceeding two years as 
from the day of passing over the punishment, or the day of liberation on account of the suspension of the 
determination of punishment or the infliction of punishment.
In case of the person mentioned in the first paragraph fails to comply with what is determined by the Court, 
the Court may give order to send such person to be put under restraint in an institution of treatment for a 
period of not exceeding two years.

Section 108. Original section/article: 50. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
When any person is given judgment inflicting punishment by the Court, and if the Court deems 
that the offence committed by such person taking the opportunity of carrying on own occupation or 
profession, and deems that such offence will be committed again by such person if such person carries on 
own occupation or profession further, the Court may issue an order in the judgment prohibiting such person to 
carry on own occupation or profession for a period not out of five years as from the date of passing over the 
punishment.
PART 3
INCREASE, REDUCTION AND SUSPENSION OF PUNISHMENT

Section 109. Original section/article: 51. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In increasing the punishment, it shall not be increased up to the punishment of death, 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment exceeding fifty years.

Section 110. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council and last, by

Section 111. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act (No. 6), B.E. 2526.

Section 112. Original section/article: 52. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In reducing the punishment of death, whether it be the reduction in the scale of punishment or in 
the punishment to be inflicted, it shall be reduced as follows:
(1) If the reduction be by one-third, the punishment shall be reduced to imprisonment for life;
(2) If the reduction be by one-half, the punishment shall be reduced to imprisonment for life or 
imprisonment of twenty-five to fifty years.

Section 113. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 114. Original section/article: 53. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In having life imprisonment reduced, whether the punishment will be reduced in the punishment 
scale or in the inflicted punishment, the life imprisonment shall be transferred as five year imprisonment.

Section 115. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 116. Original section/article: 54. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In calculating the increase or reduction of the punishment to be inflicted, the Court shall determine 
the punishment to be inflicted upon the accused first, and then the punishment shall be increased or reduced. 
If there are both increase and reduction of the punishment to be inflicted, the punishment shall be increased 
first and the reduced from the result of the addition. If the proportion of the increase is equal to or more than 
that of the reduction, the Court may, if it thinks fit, not increase or not reduce the punishment.

Section 117. Original section/article: 55. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the imprisonment, of which the offender must be inflicted, is only for three months or less, the 
less imprisonment may be determined by the Court or if the offender to be inflicted by imprisonment is only for 
three months or less, and to have the fine also, the less imprisonment may be determined by the Court, or 
such imprisonment may be repealed and only fine may still be made.

Section 118. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits offence of imprisonment, and in such case, the Court will imprison not 
exceeding three years, if it does not appear that such person has been imprisoned before, or it appease that 
one has been imprisoned before, but it is punishment for offence committed by negligence or petty offence, 
when the Court has taken into consideration of sex, age, past record, religion, behavior, intelligence, 
education, health, mind-condition, temperament, occupation and envelopment of such person or the fined 
person's offence-condition or other extenuating circumstance, it deems advisable, the Court will trial that such 
person has an offence but suspension of the determination of punishment or designates the punishment but 
the suspension of the in friction of punishment and then one is released for giving the time to such person 
reforming oneself within the period designated by the Court, but it must be not out of five year as from the 
date of the Court has passed a judgment and it will be designated by the condition for controlling such 
person's behavior or not.

Section 119. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the first paragraph, amended by

Section 120. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 15), B.E. 
2545.
Regarding the conditions for controlling the behavior of the offender, the Court may determine one or more 
conditions as follows:
(1) To report himself to the official specified by the court from time to time so that the official may make 
inquiries, give advice, assistance or admonition on the behavior and carrying on occupation, or arrange the 
activity to be done for the social service or the public benefit, as the official and offender think fit;
(2) To be trained or to carry on occupation substantially;
(3) To refrain from going into the society or from any behavior which may lead to the commission of the 
similar offence again;
(4) To take the offender to receive the assuagement and cure of the harmfully habit forming drugs, 
defective body or mind, or the other illness at the place and the period of time as determined by the Court;
(5) The other conditions are determined by the Court, as it thinks fit, in order to rectify, resuscitate or 
protect the offender to be not commit the offence or not having the occasion for committing the offence again.
The provision of the second paragraph of

Section 121. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal 
Code (No. 10), B.E. 2532.
www.thailawonline.com
Regarding the conditions determined by the Court according to the foregoing paragraph, if, afterwards, it 
appears to the Court from the submission of the offender, the legal representative or guardian of such person, 
the Public Prosecutor or the official that the circumstances relating to the control of the behavior of the 
offender have changed, the Court may, if it thinks fit, modify, supplement or revoke any of the conditions, or 
may determine in addition any of the conditions as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph which is not yet 
determined.

Section 122. Original section/article: 57. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
When it is appeared to the Court itself, or it is appeared from the statement of the Public 
Prosecutor or the official that the offender does not comply with the conditions as determined by the Court 
according to

Section 123. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the offender may be admonished by the Court, or the punishment which is not yet 
determined by the Court, or the suspended punishment may be inflicted.

Section 124. Original section/article: 58. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever it appears to the Court, or from the statement of the prosecutor or the official that, within 
the period of time determined by the Court according to

Section 125. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the sentenced person has committed an 
offence which is not an offence committed by negligence or a petty offence, and the Court passes judgment 
inflicting the punishment of imprisonment for such offence, the Court passing judgment in the latter case shall 
determine the punishment not yet determined in the former case and add it to the punishment in the latter 
case, or shall add the punishment of the infliction of which has been suspended in the former case to the 
punishment in the latter case, as the case may be.
The provision of the first paragraph of

Section 126. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal 
Code (No.10), B.E.2532.
But if, within the period of time determined by the Court according to

Section 127. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, such person has not 
committed an offence as mentioned in the first paragraph, such person shall pass from having the 
punishment determined or from being inflicted with the punishment in that case, as the case may be.
CHAPTER 4
CRIMINAL LIABILITY

Section 128. Original section/article: 59. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
A person shall be criminally liable only when such person commits an act intentionally, except in 
case of the law provides that such person must be liable when such person commits an act by negligence, or 
except in case of the law clearly provides that such person must be liable even though such person commits 
an act unintentionally.
To commit an act intentionally is to do an act consciously and at the same time the doer desired or could have 
foreseen the effect of such doing.
If the doer does not know the facts constituting the elements of the offence, it cannot be deemed that the doer 
desired or could have foreseen the effect of such doing.
To commit an act by negligence is to commit an offence unintentionally but without exercising such care as 
might be expected from a person under such condition and circumstances, and the doer could exercise such 
care but did not do so sufficiently.
www.thailawonline.com
An act shall also include any consequence brought about by the omission to do an act which must be done in 
order to prevent such consequence.

Section 129. Original section/article: 60. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any person intends to commit an act against a person, but the effect of the doing of 
such act occurs to another person through a slip, it shall be deemed that such person intentionally commits 
such act against the person who suffers from the bad effect of such doing. But, in case of the law provides for 
the infliction of heavier punishment on account of individual status or the relation between the doer and the 
person suffering from the bad effect, such law shall not be applied so as to inflict the heavier punishment on 
the doer.

Section 130. Original section/article: 61. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any person intends to commit an act against a person, but commits such act against 
another person by mistake, such person may not raise the mistake as an excuse that such person did not 
intentionally commit such act.

Section 131. Original section/article: 62. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any fact, if really existing, will cause the doing of any act not to be an offence, or the 
doer not to be punishable, or to receive less punishment, and even though such fact does not really exist, but 
the doer understands mistakenly that it really exists, the doer shall not be guilty, or shall be exempted from the 
punishment, or shall receive less punishment, as the case may be.
If ignorance of fact according to the third paragraph of

Section 132. Original section/article: 59. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or the mistake as to the existence of fact 
according to the first paragraph has occurred through the negligence of the offender, the doer shall be liable 
for committing the offence by negligence in case of the law specifically provides that the doer shall be 
criminally liable for the act though committed by negligence.
A person shall receive heavier punishment on account of any fact only when such person must have known of 
such fact.

Section 133. Original section/article: 63. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the effect of the commission of any offence causes the doer to receive heavier punishment, 
such effect must be that which may ordinarily occur.

Section 134. Original section/article: 64. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The person shall not be excused from the criminal liability committed by ignorance of law. But, if 
the Court deems that, according to the conditions and circumstances, the offender may not have known that 
the law has been prescribed that such act to be an offence, the evidence may be allowed by the Court in 
order to such person to produce before the Court, and if the doer, whom the Court believes that, does not 
know that the law has be so provided, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent than that prescribed 
by the law for such offence.

Section 135. Original section/article: 65. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any person commits an offence at the time of not being able to appreciate the nature, 
or illegality of his act or not being able to control himself on account of defective mind, mental disease or 
mental infirmity, such person shall not be punished for such offence.
But, if the offender is still partially able to appreciate the nature or illegality of his act, or is still partially able to 
control himself, such person shall be punished for such offence, but the Court may inflict less punishment to 
any extent than that provided by the law for such offence.

Section 136. Original section/article: 66. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Intoxication on account of taking liquor or any other intoxicant may not be raised as an excuse 
under

Section 137. Original section/article: 65. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, except where such intoxication is caused without the knowledge or against the will of the 
www.thailawonline.com
offender, and such person has committed the offence at the time of not being able to appreciate the nature of 
illegality of his act or not being able to control himself, the offender shall then be exempted from the 
punishment for such offence. But, if such person is still partially able to appreciate the nature or illegality of his 
act, or is still partially able to control himself, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent than that 
provided by the law for such offence.

Section 138. Original section/article: 67. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person shall not be punished for committing any offence on account of necessity:
(1) When such person is under compulsion or under the influence of a force such that such person cannot 
avoid or resist; or
(2) When such person acts in order to make himself or another person to escape from an imminent danger 
which could not be avoided by any other means, and which such person did not cause to exist through his 
own fault.
Provided that no more is done than is reasonably necessary under the circumstances.

Section 139. Original section/article: 68. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person is to commit any act for defending his own right or other person's right in order to 
except from a danger arising out of violence tortuous to the law and such danger to be imminent, if 
reasonably having committed under the circumstance, such act is a lawful defense, and such person shall not 
have a quilt.

Section 140. Original section/article: 69. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In the cases as provided in Sections 67 and 68, if the act committed is in excess of what is 
reasonable under the circumstances or in excess of what is necessary, or in excess of what is necessary for 
the defense, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent than that provided by the law for such 
offence. But, if such act occurs out of excitement, fright or fear, the Court may not inflict any punishment at all.

Section 141. Original section/article: 70. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person does an act done in accordance with the order of an official, even though such order 
is unlawful, if such doer has the duty or believes in good faith that having the duty to comply with such order, 
that person shall not punished, unless that person Knows that such order is unlawful.

Section 142. Original section/article: 71. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offences as provided in Sections 334 to 336, first paragraph, and Sections 341 to 364 are 
committed by a husband against his wife, or by a wife against her husband, the offender shall not be 
punished.
If the aforesaid offences are committed by an ascendant against his descendant, or by a descendant against 
his ascendant, or by a brother or sister of the same parents against each other, the offences shall, even 
though not provided by the law as compoundable offences, be deemed as compoundable offences. 
Moreover, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent than that provided by the law for such offences.

Section 143. Original section/article: 72. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person to be hot blooded by being maltreated seriously by unjust cause comes to commit an 
offence against the maltreating person at that time, the Court may inflict the punishment upon such person 
any less than punishment as prescribed by the law for such offence.

Section 144. Original section/article: 73. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
A child not yet over seven years of age shall not be punished for committing what is provided by 
the law to be an offence.

Section 145. Original section/article: 74. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever a child over seven years but not yet over fourteen years of age commits what is 
provided by the law to be an offence, he shall not be punished, but the Court shall have the power as follows:
www.thailawonline.com
(1) To admonish the child and then discharge him ; and the Court may, if it thinks fit, summon the parents or 
guardian of the child or the person with whom the child is residing to be given an admonition too;
(2) If the Court is of opinion that the parents or guardian are able to take care of the child, the Court may give 
order to hand over the child to his parents or guardian by imposing the stipulation that the parents or guardian 
shall take care that the child does not cause any harm throughout the time prescribed by the Court, but not 
exceeding three years, and fixing a sum of money, as it thinks fit, which the parents or guardian shall have to 
pay to the Court, but not exceeding one thousand Baht for each time when such child causes harm;
If the child resides with a person other than his parents or guardian, and the Court does not think fit to 
summon the parents or guardian to impose the aforesaid stipulation, the Court may summon the person with 
whom the child resides for questioning as to whether or not he will accept the stipulation similar to that 
prescribed for the parents or guardian as aforesaid. If the person with whom such child resides consents to 
accept such stipulation, the Court shall give order to hand over the child to such person by imposing the 
aforesaid stipulation;
(3) In case of the Court hands over the child to his parents, guardian or to the person with whom the child 
resides according to (2), the Court may determine the conditions for controlling behavior of the child in the 
same manner as provided in

Section 146. Original section/article: 56. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
also. In such case, the Court shall appoint a probation officer or any 
other official to control behavior of the child;
(4) If the child has no parents or guardian, or has them but the Court is of opinion that they are unable to take 
care of such child, or if the child resides with a person other than the parents or guardian, and such person 
refuses to accept the stipulation mentioned in (2), the Court may give order to hand over such child to a 
person or organization, as the Court thinks fit, to take care of, to train and to give instruction throughout the 
period of time prescribed by the Court when consented to by such person or organization. in such case, such 
person or organization shall have the same power as that of the guardian only for the purpose of taking care 
of, training and giving instruction as well as determining the residence and making arrangement for the work 
to be done by the child, as may be reasonable; or
(5) To send such child to a school or place of training and instruction or a place established for training and 
giving instruction to children throughout the period of time prescribed by the Court but not longer than the 
time when such child shall have completed eighteen years of age.
As to the orders of the Court mentioned in (2), (3), (4) and (5), if, at any time within the period of time 
prescribed by the Court, it appears to the Court itself, or it appears from the submission of the interested 
person, the Public Prosecutor, or the person or the organization to whom or which the Court has handed over 
the child for taking care of, training and giving instruction, or the official that the circumstances relating to 
such order have changed, the Court shall have the power to modify such order or to give a new order 
according to the power vested by this Section.

Section 147. Original section/article: 75. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any person over fourteen years but not yet over seventeen years of age commits any 
act provided by the law to be an offence, the Court shall take into account the sense of responsibility and all 
other things concerning such person in order to come to decision as to whether it is expedient to pass 
www.thailawonline.com
judgment inflicting punishment on such person or not. If the Court does not deem it expedient to pass 
judgment inflicting punishment, it shall proceed according to

Section 148. Original section/article: 74. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or if the Court deems it expedient to 
pass judgment inflicting punishment, it shall reduce the scale of punishment as provided for such offence by 
one-half.

Section 149. Original section/article: 76. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person out of seventeen years but not out of twenty years of age commits an act as 
prescribed by the law to be an offence, if the Court to deem expedient may reduce the scale of the 
punishment as provided for such offence by one-third or a half.

Section 150. Original section/article: 77. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of the Court imposes a stipulation requiring the parents, guardian or the person with whom 
such child resides to take care that such child does not cause any harm according to

Section 151. Original section/article: 74. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(2), if such 
child causes any harm within the prescribed time, the Court has the power to compel the parents, guardian or 
the person with whom such child resides to pay a sum of money not exceeding that determined in such 
stipulation within the time as the Court thinks fit. If the parents, guardian or the person with whom such child 
resides fail to pay the sum of money, the Court may give order to seize the property of the parents, guardian 
or the person with whom such child resides for payment of what must be paid.
In case of the Court compels the parents, guardian or the person with whom such child resides to pay the 
sum of money according to such stipulation, if the Court does not modify the order imposing such stipulation 
according to the last paragraph of

Section 152. Original section/article: 74. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to be otherwise, such stipulation shall remain in force further 
until the period of time prescribed in such stipulation terminates.

Section 153. Original section/article: 78. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever it appears that there exists an extenuating circumstance, whether or not there be an 
increase or reduction of the punishment according to the provisions of this Code or the other law, the Court 
may, if it thinks fit, reduce the punishment to be inflicted on the offender by not more than one-half.
Extenuating circumstances may include lack of intelligence, serious distress, previous good conduct, the 
repentance and the efforts made by the offender to minimize the injurious consequence of the offence, 
voluntary surrender to an official, the information given or the Court for the benefit of the trial, or the other 
circumstance which the Court considers to be of similar nature.

Section 154. Original section/article: 79. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In the case having offence to be punished with fine only, if the person alleged as having 
committed an offence pays the fine in the maximum rate for such offence before the Court commences to take 
the evidence, the case shall be lapsed.
CHAPTER 5
OF COMMITMENT

Section 155. Original section/article: 80. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commences to commit an offence, but does not carry it through, or carries it through, but 
does not achieve its end, is said to attempt to commit an offence.
Whoever attempts to commit an offence shall be liable to two-thirds of the punishment as provided by the law 
for such offence.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 156. Original section/article: 81. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commences and commits the offence, but does not commit it through, or commits it 
through, but does not achieve its a good result, such person in said to attempts and commits an offence.
The offence is attempted to commit by whoever, such person shall be punished two-thirds of punishment as 
prescribed by the law for such offence.
If the act mentioned in the first paragraph is done on account of blind belief, the Court may not inflict the 
punishment.

Section 157. Original section/article: 82. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever attempts to commit an offence, but, on his own accord, desists from carrying it through, 
or changes his mind and prevents the act from achieving its end, shall not be punished for such attempt to 
commit the offence. But, if what he has already done comes under the provisions of law as an offence, he 
shall be punished for such offence.
CHAPTER 6
PRINCIPALS AND SUPPORTERS

Section 158. Original section/article: 83. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of any offence is accrued by commission of the person as from two persons upwards, 
such accomplices deemed to be principals shall be punished as provided by the law for such offence.

Section 159. Original section/article: 84. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, whether by employment, compulsion, threat, hire, asking as favor or instigation, or by 
any other means, causes another person to commit any offence is said to be an instigator.
If the employed person commits the offence, the instigator shall receive the punishment as principal. If the 
offence is not committed, whether it be that the employed person does not consent to commit, or has not yet 
committed, or on account of any ether reason, the instigator shall be liable to only one-third of the punishment 
provided for such offence.

Section 160. Original section/article: 85. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever propagates or publishes to the general public to commit an offence and such offence 
being punishable with imprisonment of not less than six months, shall be liable to one-half of the punishment 
provided for such offence.
If the offence is committed on account of the propagation or publication according to the first paragraph, the 
person who made such propagation or publication shall be liable to the punishment as principal.

Section 161. Original section/article: 86. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever does for any reason whatsoever as assist or facility to any other person committing an 
offence before or late time of committing the offence, even though such assistance or facility is not known by 
the offender, such assistant deemed to be supporter in committing such offence shall be punished by two-
thirds of the punishment as provided for such offence.

Section 162. Original section/article: 87. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of an offence is committed on account of having a person to employ an another person to 
commit the offence according to

Section 163. Original section/article: 84. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or on account of having a person to propagate or publish to the 
general public to commit the offence according to

Section 164. Original section/article: 85. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or by having the supporter according to

Section 165. Original section/article: 86. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, if the offence occurred is committed by the offender beyond the scope of the employment, 
propagation or publication, or in excess of the intention of the supporter, the instigator, the person making the 
propagation or publication to the general public to commit the offence, or the supporter to commit the 
www.thailawonline.com
offence, as the case may be, shall be criminally liable for the offence only in so far as it is within the scope of 
the employment, propagation or publication, or within the scope of the intention of the supporter to commit the 
offence only. But, by circumstances, if it may be foreseen that such offence may occur from the employment, 
propagation or publication, or support, the instigator, the person making the propagation or publication to the 
general public to commit the offence, or the supporter to commit the offence, as the case may be, shall be 
criminally liable for the offence occurred.
In case of the employed person, the person doing according to the propagation or publication to the general 
public to commit an offence, or the principal in the offence shall be criminally liable for higher punishment on 
account of the consequence resulting from the commission of the offence, the instigator, the person making 
the propagation or publication to the general public to commit the offence, or the supporter to commit the 
offence, as the case may be, shall be also criminally liable for the offence having such higher punishment. 
But, by the nature of the offence, if the offender shall be criminally liable for higher punishment only when the 
offender must know or could foresee that such consequence would occur, the instigator, the person making 
the propagation or publication to the general public to commit the offence, or the supporter to commit the 
offence shall be criminally liable for the offence having higher punishment only when he has known or could 
have foreseen that such consequence would occur.

Section 166. Original section/article: 88. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence for which there is employment, propagation or publication to the general public to 
commit the offence or support is carried out up to the stage of commencement, but, on account of the 
intervention of the instigator, the person making the propagation or publication, or the supporter, it cannot be 
carried through, or it is carried through, but it does not achieve its end, the instigator or the person making the 
propagation or publication shall be liable only for what is provided in

Section 167. Original section/article: 84. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, second paragraph, or

Section 168. Original section/article: 85. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, first paragraph, as the case may be, while the supporter shall not be liable to punishment.

Section 169. Original section/article: 89. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If there are the circumstance personal to any offender so as to excluded, reduce or increase the 
punishment, such circumstances personal shall not be applied to any other offender for committing such 
offence. But the circumstances so as to exclude, reduce or increase the punishment as circumstances 
relating to the nature of the offence, it shall be applied to every offender involving the commission of the 
offence.
CHAPTER 7
CONCURRENCE OF OFFENCES

Section 170. Original section/article: 90. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
When any act is one and the same act violating several provisions of the law having the severest 
punishment shall be applied to inflict the punishment upon the offender.

Section 171. Original section/article: 91. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If it appears that any offender has committed the several distinct and different offences, the Court 
may inflict upon such offender the punishment prescribed for each offence. But, whether there shall be 
increase of the punishment, reduction of the punishment or reduction in the scale of the punishment, or not, 
the total punishment of every offence must not exceed the following determination:
www.thailawonline.com
(1) Ten years in case of the severest offence to have the rate of the maximum punishment of imprisonment 
not exceeding three years;
(2) Twenty years in case of the severest offence to have the rate of the maximum punishment of 
imprisonment exceeding three years upwards, but not more than ten years;
(3) Fifty years in case of the severest offence to have the rate of the maximum punishment of imprisonment 
exceeding ten years upwards, unless in the case where the Court inflicts upon the offender the punishment of 
imprisonment for life.

Section 172. Original section/article: 2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree of the National Executive Council (No. 11) and last, by

Section 173. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 6), B.E. 2526.
CHAPTER 8
RECIDIVE

Section 174. Original section/article: 92. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If whoever, having been adjudged finally to be convicted by imprisonment, has committed any 
subsequent offence during the time still having to undergo the punishment, or within five years as from the 
date of passing the punishment, if the Court will sentence for the subsequent offence to be imprisoned, the 
Court shall increase the punishment to be inflicted upon such person by one-third of the punishment as 
prescribed by the Court for the subsequent offence.

Section 175. Original section/article: 93. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having been convicted of a prior offence by a final judgment, commits any subsequent 
offence as specified in the following sub-sections during the time he still has to undergo the punishment, or 
within three years as from the date of passing the punishment, both the prior and subsequent offences falling 
under the same sub-section, and if the Court is to inflict the punishment of imprisonment for the subsequent 
offence, the punishment to be inflicted upon him shall, if the punishment inflicted by the judgment for the prior 
offence was imprisonment of not less than six months, be increased by one-half of the punishment imposed 
upon him by the Court for the subsequent offence:
(1) Offences Relating to the Security of the Kingdom as provided in Sections 107 to 135;
(2) Offences against Officials as provided in Sections 136 to 146;
(3) Malfeasance in Office as provided in Sections 147 to 166;
(4) Offences Against Judicial Officials as provided in Sections 167 to 192 and

Section 176. Original section/article: 194. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
;
(5) Malfeasance in Judicial Office as provided in Sections 200 to 204;
(6) Offences Relating to Public Peace as provided in Sections 209 to 216;
(7) Offences Relating to Causing Public Dangers as provided in Sections 217 to 224, Sections 226 to 234, 
and Sections 236 to 238;
(8) Offences Relating to Currency as provided in Sections 240 to 249, and Offences Relating to Seals, 
Stamps and Tickets as provided in Sections 250 to 261, and Offences Relating to Documents as provided in 
Sections 264 to 269;
(9) Offences Relating to Trade as provided in Sections 270 to 275;
www.thailawonline.com
(10) Offences Relating to Sexuality as provided in Sections 276 to 285;
(11) Offences Against Life as provided in Sections 288 to 290 and

Section 177. Original section/article: 294. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, Offences Against Body as 
provided in Sections 295 to 299, Offences Relating to Abortion as provided in Sections 301 to 303, and 
Offences Relating to Abandonment of Children, Sick Persons or Aged Persons as provided in Sections 306 to 
308;
(12) Offences Against Liberty as provided in

Section 178. Original section/article: 310. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
and Sections 312 to 320;
(13) Offences Against Property as provided in Sections 334 to 365.

Section 179. Original section/article: 94. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offence committed by negligence, petty offence and offence committed by the offender while 
not to be over seventeen years of age, irrespective of whether the prior offence or the subsequent offence, 
shall not be deemed as the offence so as to increase the punishment under the provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 9
PRESCRIPTION

Section 180. Original section/article: 95. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In a criminal case, if the offender is not prosecuted and brought to the Court within the following 
specified periods of time as from the date of the commission of the offence, the prosecution shall he 
precluded by prescription:
(1) Twenty years in case of offences punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment of 
twenty years;
(2) Fifteen years in case of offences punishable with imprisonment of over seven years but not up to 
twenty years;
(3) Ten years in case of offences punishable with imprisonment of over one year up to seven years;
(4) Five years in case of offences punishable with imprisonment of over one month up to one year;
(5) One year in the case of offences punishable with imprisonment of one month downwards or other 
punishment.
If the offender has been prosecuted and brought to the Court, but the offender escapes, or is insane, and the 
Court gives order suspending the trial till the specified period has expired reckoning from the date of escape, 
or the date of giving order suspending the trial, it shall be deemed that prosecution be likewise precluded by 
prescription.

Section 181. Original section/article: 95. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, in case of compoundable offence, if the injured person does not lodge a 
complaint within three months as from the date of offence and offender to be known by the injured person, the 
criminal prosecution is precluded by prescription.

Section 182. Original section/article: 97. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In a prosecution for relegation, if it is to be made after the prosecution of the case which is the 
basis giving rise to the power of prosecution for relegation, it must be made within six months reckoning from 
the day of prosecution of such case, otherwise it shall be precluded by prescription.

Section 183. Original section/article: 98. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If any person, convicted by the final judgment, has not yet undergone the punishment, or has not 
completely undergone the punishment on account of having made an escape, and such person is not 
www.thailawonline.com
brought to undergo the punishment till the following periods of time reckoning from the day of the final 
judgment, or the day on which the offender has made the escape, as the case may be, the execution of 
punishment shall be precluded by prescription, and the punishment shall not be inflicted upon such person:
(1) After twenty years in case of a sentence to death, to imprisonment for life or to imprisonment of twenty 
years;
(2) After fifteen years in case of a sentence to imprisonment of over seven years but not up to twenty 
years;
(3) After ten years in case of a sentence to imprisonment of over one year up to seven years;
(4) After five years in case of a sentence to imprisonment of one year downwards or any other 
punishment.

Section 184. Original section/article: 99. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the seizure of property paying the fine or confinement in lieu of fine has been made within five 
years as from the date of final judgment, neither seizure of property nor confinement shall be unable to make.
The provisions of the first paragraph shall not be enforced to the case of confinement in lieu of fine as made 
continuously with the infliction of imprisonment.

Section 185. Original section/article: 100. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If any person relegated by the final judgment has not under-gone relegation, or has not 
completely undergone relegation on account of having made an escape, and the period of three years has 
expired reckoning from the day of passing the punishment by having undergone the punishment according to 
the judgment or by having the execution of punishment precluded by prescription, or from the day when such 
person made an escape during the time of relegation, the relegation shall be precluded, and such person 
shall not be relegated.

Section 186. Original section/article: 101. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the execution of the order of the Court according to

Section 187. Original section/article: 46. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or the request to the Court to 
make an order for payment of money when the person executing the bond breaks the bond according to

Section 188. Original section/article: 47. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
is not made within two years reckoning from the day when the Court gave the order, or from the 
day when the person executing the bond broke the bond, the execution or request shall not be made.
TITLE II
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PETTY OFFENCES

Section 189. Original section/article: 102. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The petty offence is the offence which shall be punished by imprisonment not out of one month 
or fine not out of one thousand Baht, or both imprisonment and fine as aforesaid together.

Section 190. Original section/article: 103. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The provisions of Title I, excepting those provided in the three following Sections, shall apply to 
the case of petty offences also.

Section 191. Original section/article: 104. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Petty offences under this Code are punishable offences, even though they are committed 
unintentionally, unless otherwise provided in such offences.

Section 192. Original section/article: 105. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever attempts and commits the petty offence, that person shall not be punished.

Section 193. Original section/article: 106. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
A supporter to commit a petty offence shall not be punished.
www.thailawonline.com
BOOK II SPECIFIC OFFENSES
TITLE I
OFFENCES RELATING TO THE SECURITY
OF THE KINGDOM
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCES AGAINST THE KING, THE QUEEN, THE HEIR-APPARENT AND THE REGENT

Section 194. Original section/article: 107. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, assassinating the King to the death, shall be punished by the death.
Whoever, attempting to commit the act as aforesaid, shall be punished in the same manner.
Whoever, making any act as preparation for assassinating the King or knowing that there is the person who 
will assassinate the King, having made any act to assist in keeping the secret act, shall be punished by life-
imprisonment.

Section 195. Original section/article: 108. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits an act of violence against the King or His liberty, shall be punished with death 
or imprisonment for life.
Whoever, attempts to commit such offence, shall be liable to the same punishment.
If such act is likely to endanger His life, the offender shall be punished with death.
Whoever, makes preparations for committing any act of violence against the King or His liberty, or does any 
act to assist in keeping secret any intention to commit such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of 
sixteen to twenty years.

Section 196. Original section/article: 109. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever causes death to the Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent shall be punished with 
death.
Whoever attempts to commit such offence, shall be liable to the same punishment.
Whoever makes preparations for causing death to the Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent, or does any 
act to assist in keeping secret any intention to commit such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of 
twelve to twenty years.

Section 197. Original section/article: 110. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits an act of violence against the Queen or Her liberty, the Heir-apparent or His 
liberty, or the Regent or his/her liberty, shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of sixteen 
to twenty years.
Whoever attempts to commit such offence, shall be liable to the same punishment.
If such act is likely to endanger the life of the Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent, the offender, shall be 
punished with death or imprisonment for life.
Whoever makes preparations for committing an act of violence against the Queen or Her liberty, the Heir-
apparent or His liberty, or the Regent or his/her liberty, or does any act to assist in keeping secret any 
intention to commit such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of twelve to twenty years.

Section 198. Original section/article: 111. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to be the supporter for committing any offence under

Section 199. Original section/article: 110. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall 
be punished in the same manner as the principal in such offence.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 200. Original section/article: 112. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever defames, insults or threatens the King, the Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent, 
shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years.

Section 201. Original section/article: 1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in 
B.E. 2519.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENCES AGAINST THE INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE KINGDOM

Section 202. Original section/article: 113. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits an act of violence or threatens to commit an act of violence in order to:
(1) Overthrow or change the Constitution;
(2) Overthrow the legislative power, the executive power or the judicial power of the Constitution, or nullify 
such power; or
(3) Separate the Kingdom or seize the power of administration in any part of the Kingdom, is said to commit 
insurrection, and shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 203. Original section/article: 114. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, collecting the forces or arms, or otherwise making the preparations or conspires to 
commit the insurrection, or committing any offence as the part of the plot committing the insurrection, or 
instigating the private persons to commit the insurrection, or Knowing that there are the persons to commit the 
insurrection and making any act to assist in keeping such secret intention to commit such insurrection, shall 
be punished by imprisonment as from three to fifteen years.

Section 204. Original section/article: 115. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, instigates any member of the armed forces or the police forces to desert or not to 
perform his duties, or to commit mutiny, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years.
If such offence is committed for the purpose of undermining the discipline and efficiency of the said armed 
forces or police forces, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten years.

Section 205. Original section/article: 116. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, makes an appearance to the public by words, writings or any other means which is not 
an act within the purpose of the Constitution or for expressing an honest opinion or criticism in order:
(1) To bring about a change in the Laws of the Country or the Government by the use of force or violence;
(2) To raise unrest and disaffection amongst the people in a manner likely to cause disturbance in the 
country; or
(3) To cause the people to transgress the laws of the Country, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding seven years.

Section 206. Original section/article: 117. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, instigates or causes a strike, lockout, or concerted cessation of trade or business with 
any person for the purpose of bringing about any change in the Laws of the Country, coercing the 
Government or intimidating the public, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years or fine 
not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht, or both.
Whoever, with the knowledge of the above purpose, takes part or assists in the said strike, lock-out, or 
concerted cessation of trade or business with any person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
three years or fine not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com
Whoever, with the knowledge of the above purpose, commits any act of violence, threatens to commit any act 
of violence or intimidates by any means whatever so as to compel any person to take part or assist in any 
strike, lock-out, or concerted cessation of trade or business with any person, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding five years or fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 207. Original section/article: 118. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, making any act to the flag or any other emblem to be symbolized the State with the 
intention to deride the Nation, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of four thousand Baht, 
or both.

Section 208. Original section/article: 2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in 
B.E. 2519.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENCES AGAINST THE EXTERNAL SECURITY OF THE KINGDOM

Section 209. Original section/article: 119. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, does any act with intent to cause the Country or any part thereof to descend under the 
sovereignty of any foreign State, or to deteriorate the independence of the State, shall be punished with death 
or imprisonment for life.

Section 210. Original section/article: 120. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, conspiring with the person to make the act for the benefit of the foreign State with the 
intention of causing the battle against the State or in an other way against the State, shall be imprisoned for 
life or imprisoned as from ten years to twenty years.

Section 211. Original section/article: 121. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being a Thai, bears the arms in battle against the Country, or participates as an enemy 
of the Country, shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 212. Original section/article: 122. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, does any act in order to assist the waging of battle or the preparation for battle of the 
enemy, shall be punished with imprisonment of five to fifteen years.
If such assistance is made:
(1) By rendering useless or bringing into the power of an enemy, any fortress, camp, airport, war 
conveyance, conveyance, line of communication, article used in communication, armaments, food, dock, 
building or any other thing used for the purpose of war;
(2) By instigating any member of the armed forces to neglect to perform his duties, to commit mutiny, to 
desert the service or to commit breach of discipline;
(3) By committing espionage, conducting or guiding the enemy; or
(4) By acting any other means of the advantage for the enemy in the battle;
The offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 213. Original section/article: 123. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, making any act so as to procure the information, document or any thing kept to be 
secret for the safety of the Country, shall be imprisoned not less than ten years.

Section 214. Original section/article: 124. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, does any act in order that any other person may know or obtain any information, 
document or anything which is kept secret for the safety of the Country, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding ten years.
www.thailawonline.com
If such offence is committed whilst the Country is engaged in the battle or war, the offender shall be punished 
with imprisonment of five to fifteen years.
If the offence, mentioned in the two foregoing paragraphs, is committed for the benefit of a foreign State, the 
offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 215. Original section/article: 125. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, counterfeiting, fabricating, detaining, hiding, concealing, removing, damaging, 
destroying, or losing or rendering any of document or plan concerning the interest of State in the international 
affairs, shall be imprisoned not out of ten years.

Section 216. Original section/article: 126. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being entrusted by the Government to carry out any activities of the State with a 
foreign Government, dishonestly does not carry out the activities as entrusted, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to ten years.

Section 217. Original section/article: 127. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, making any act for causing the danger to the external security of the State, shall be 
imprisoned not out of ten years.
If such danger having been occurred, the offender shall be punished with the death or life imprisonment or 
imprisoned as from two years to twenty years.

Section 218. Original section/article: 128. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, makes preparation or attempt to commit any offence mentioned in this Chapter, shall 
be liable to the same punishment provided for such offence.

Section 219. Original section/article: 129. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the supporter for committing any offence as mentioned by this Chapter, shall be 
punished in the same punishment as the principal in such offence.
CHAPTER 4
OFFENCE AGAINST THE FRIENDLY RELATION WITH FOREIGN STATES

Section 220. Original section/article: 130. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing bodily harm, or committing any act of violence against the liberty of the 
Sovereign, his Queen or her Consort, Heir-apparent or Head of a friendly foreign State, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to fifteen years.
Whoever attempts to commit such offence, shall be liable to the same punishment.

Section 221. Original section/article: 131. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, assaulting or committing any act of violence against the liberty of the Foreign 
Representative to be accredited to the Royal court, shall be imprisoned not out of ten years.
Whoever, attempting to commit the act as aforesaid, shall be punished by the same punishment.

Section 222. Original section/article: 132. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever causing death, or attempting to cause death to any person specified in

Section 223. Original section/article: 131. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 224. Original section/article: 133. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, defaming, insulting or threatening the Sovereign, Queen, Consort, Heir-apparent or 
Head of Foreign State, shall be imprisoned as from one year to seven years or fined as from two thousand to 
fourteen thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 225. Original section/article: 134. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, defaming, insulting or threatening a foreign Representative accredited to the Royal 
Court, shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to five years or fine of one to ten thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 226. Original section/article: 135. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, doing any act to the flag or any other emblem to be symbolized the friendly Foreign 
State with the intention to deride that State, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of four 
thousand Baht, or both.
Sections 133, 134 and 135 amended by the

Section 227. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative 
Reform Council in B.E. 2519.
TITLE I/I
THE OFFENCE IN RESPECT OF TERRORIZATION

Section 228. Original section/article: 135/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, performing the Criminal Offence, as follows:
(1) Commit an act of violence or exercise any act to cause a danger to life or a body harm or any person's 
freedom harm seriously;
(2) Commit any act to cause seriously injury to transportation-system, communication-system or structure 
base of public interest;
(3) Commit any act to cause injury to any State's property or any person's property or an envelopment to 
cause likely cause an important economic injury;
If such act is made by the aim to treated or enforce Thai Government, Foreign Government or International 
Organization make or not to make any act to cause seriously injury or for making a disorder by causing the 
people to be terrified, such person committing an offence of terrorization must be punished with death, 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment from three years to twenty years and fine from six ten thousands Baht to 
one million Baht;
Doings by demonstration, convocation, protestation, argument or movement for demanding Government aid 
or to be received Justice is not offence of terrorization.

Section 229. Original section/article: 135/2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever:
(1) Treated to make a terrorization under circumstances advisable to be believed that such person will do as 
treatment really; or
(2) Collect forces or arms, procure or gather property, give or receive a training terrorization, prepare any 
other act or conspire each other to terrorize or commit any offence in a part of plan to terrorize or abet people 
into a part of terrorization or ones know the terrorists and commit any act to be covered;
Such person shall be imprisoned as from two years to ten years and fined as from four ten thousands Baht to 
two hundred thousands Baht.

Section 230. Original section/article: 135/3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to be supporter in committing offence under

Section 231. Original section/article: 13512. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
shall be 
liable to the same punishment as principal in such offence.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 232. Original section/article: 135/4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to be the member of a body of persons who there is resolution of or notification 
subject to Security Council of the United Nations Organization designating as a body of persons to have 
committed an act as terrorization, and Thai Government has notified to acknowledge notification or resolution 
as aforesaid, such person shall be imprisoned not more than seven years and fined not more than hundred 
thousands and four ten thousands Baht.
Nature 1/1 with

Section 233. Original section/article: 135/4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
prescribed by the Act Amending the Criminal Code, S.E. 2546,

Section 234. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(G.G. 120 A. 76, dated in G.G. 11 August 2546).
TITLE II
OFFENCE RELATING TO PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE AGAINST OFFICIALS

Section 235. Original section/article: 136. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, insulting the official doing the act according to the function or having done the act 
according to the function, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 236. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in 
B.E. 2519.

Section 237. Original section/article: 137. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving any false information to any official, and is likely to cause injury to any person or 
the public, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding six months or fine not exceeding one thousand 
Baht, or both.

Section 238. Original section/article: 138. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, resisting or obstructs an official or a person required by law to assist such official in the 
due exercise of his functions, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fine not 
exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.
If such resistance or obstruction is committed by doing an act of violence or threatening to do an act of 
violence, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fine not exceeding 
four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 239. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in 
B.E. 2519.

Section 240. Original section/article: 139. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, coercing the official to exercise the act unfunctionfully or refraining from the discharge 
of one's duty by doing any act of violence or threatening to do any act of violence, shall be imprisoned not out 
of four years or fined not out of eight thousand Baht, or both.

Section 241. Original section/article: 140. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence according to the second paragraph of

Section 242. Original section/article: 139. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
is committed by 
the offender carrying or using any arms, or by having participation of three persons upwards, the offender 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or 
both.
www.thailawonline.com
If such offence is committed by alluding to the power of a secret society or a criminal association, whether 
there is such secret society or criminal association or not, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of 
two to ten years and fine of four to twenty thousand Baht.
If the offence according to this Section is committed by the offender carrying or using any gun, or explosive, 
the offender shall be liable to heavier punishment than that as provided in the two preceding paragraphs by 
one-half.

Section 243. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 244. Original section/article: 141. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, removing, damaging, destroying or rendering useless the seal or mark stamped or 
affixed by the official to anything in discharge of one's duty in witness whereof in seizing, attaching or keeping 
such thing, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 245. Original section/article: 142. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, concealing, making away with, losing or rendering useless any 
property or document seized or being kept by an official, or ordered to be sent as evidence or for execution of 
the law, whether the official keeps such property or document himself, or ordering such person or the other 
person to send or keep it, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fine not 
exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 246. Original section/article: 143. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, demanding, accepting or agreeing to accept a property or any other benefit for himself 
or the other person as a return for inducting or having induced, by dishonest or unlawful means, or by using 
his influence, any official, member of the State Legislative Assembly, member of the Changvad Assembly or 
member of the Municipal Assembly to exercise or not to exercise any of his functions, which is advantageous 
or disadvantageous to any person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fine not 
exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 247. Original section/article: 144. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving, offering or agreeing to give the property or any other benefit to the official, 
member of State Legislative Assembly, member of Provincial Assembly or member of Municipal Assembly so 
as to induce such person to do or not to do any act, or to delay the doing of any act contrary to one's own 
duty, shall be imprisoned not out of five years or fined not out of ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 248. Original section/article: 145. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, professing himself to be an official and exercising the functions of an official without 
being an official having the power to do so, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or 
fine not exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.
Any official, who has been duly ordered to discontinue further exercise of his functions still continues to 
exercise such functions, shall be liable likewise to the punishment as provided in the first paragraph.

Section 249. Original section/article: 146. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, not to have the right to wear the uniform or insignia of any of official, member of State 
Legislative Assembly, member of Provincial Assembly or member of Municipal Assembly, or not to have the 
right to use any of official title, rank, decoration or thing to symbolize the decoration, and to do so in order to 
be believed by other person that oneself has the right to wear those things, shall be imprisoned not out of one 
year or fined not out of two thousand Baht, or both.
CHAPTER 2
www.thailawonline.com
MALFEASANCE IN OFFICE

Section 250. Original section/article: 147. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of purchasing, manufacturing, managing or keeping 
any thing, dishonestly misappropriates the same for his own or the other person, or dishonestly allows the 
other person to misappropriate the same, shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty years or 
imprisonment for life, and fine of two thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 251. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 252. Original section/article: 148. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the official, by a wrongful exercise of one's functions, to coerce or to induce any 
person to deliver or to procure the property or any other benefit for oneself or other person, shall be 
imprisoned as from five years to twenty years or to life imprisonment, and fined as from two thousand Baht to 
forty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 253. Original section/article: 148. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
amended by Sections 4 of the Criminal Code Amendment Act, B.E. 2502.

Section 254. Original section/article: 149. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official, member of the State legislative Assembly, member of the Changvad 
Assembly or member of the Municipal Assembly, wrongfully demands, accepts or agrees to accept for 
himself or the other person a property or any other benefit for exercising or not exercising any of his functions, 
whether such exercise or non-exercise of his functions is wrongful or not, shall be punished with imprisonment 
of five to twenty years or imprisonment for life, and fined of two thousand to forty thousand Baht, or death.

Section 255. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 256. Original section/article: 150. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the official performing or not performing any act in one's own function in 
consideration of the property or any other benefit demanded, accepted or agreed to accept by oneself before 
to be appointed as official in that post, shall be imprisoned as from five years to twenty years or life 
imprisonment, and fined as from two thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht.

Section 257. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 258. Original section/article: 151. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the official to have the duty in the purchase, execution, management or 
maintenance of any thing by a wrongful exercise of one's functions damaging the State, the Municipality, the 
Sanitation or the owner of such property, shall be imprisoned as form five years to twenty year or life 
imprisonment and fined as from two thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht.

Section 259. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 260. Original section/article: 152. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of managing or looking after any activity, takes the 
interest for the benefit of himself or the other person concerning such activity, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to ten years and fine of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 261. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 262. Original section/article: 153. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be official to have the duty to defray chose, having defrayed such chose more than 
what should be defrayed chose, having defrayed such chose more than what should be defrayed for the 
benefit of oneself or the other person, shall be imprisoned as from one year to ten years and fined as from two 
thousand Baht to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 263. Original section/article: 9. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 264. Original section/article: 154. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty, or professing to have the duty of collecting or 
checking taxes, duties, fees or any other money, dishonestly collects or fails to collect such taxes, duties, fees 
or money, or does any act or does not do any act in order that the person having the duty to pay such taxes, 
duties or fees shall not have to pay them, or pay less than what such person has to pay, shall be punished 
with imprisonment of five to twenty years or imprisonment for life, and fine of two thousand to forty thousand 
Baht.

Section 265. Original section/article: 10. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 266. Original section/article: 155. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be official to have the duty to assess any of property-value or goods for collection of 
the taxes, duties or fees according to the law dishonestly, to such property-value or goods so as to such 
person to have the duty to pay the tax, duties or fees without to pay or to pay less than of which shall be paid 
by such person, shall be imprisoned as from five years to twenty years or life imprisonment and fined as from 
two thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht.

Section 267. Original section/article: 11. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 268. Original section/article: 156. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of checking and auditing accounts according to the 
law dishonestly, advises or does or does not do any act so as to cause an omission of entry in the accounts, a 
false entry in the accounts, an alteration in the accounts, or concealment or evidence to be recorded in the 
entry of the accounts resulting in the non- payment of taxes, duties or fees, or in the payment of less than what 
such person has to pay, shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty years or imprisonment for life, 
and fined of two thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 269. Original section/article: 12. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 270. Original section/article: 157. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official, wrongfully exercises or does not exercise any of his functions to the 
injury of any person, or dishonestly exercises or omits to exercise any of his functions, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to ten years or fined of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 271. Original section/article: 12. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code, B.E. 2502.

Section 272. Original section/article: 158. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be official damaging, destroying, concealing, taking away, losing or rendering 
useless any of property or document of which to be one self’s duty to take charge or maintain, or allowing the 
other person doing so, shall be imprisoned not out of seven years and fined not out of fourteen thousand 
Baht.

Section 273. Original section/article: 159. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of looking after and keeping any thing or document, 
wrongfully does an act by removing, damaging, destroying or rendering useless a seal or mark stamped or 
affixed by the official on such thing or document in the exercise of his functions as evidence of seizing or 
keeping such thing, or allows the other person to do so. shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 274. Original section/article: 160. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of keeping or using seals or impressions of the seals 
of the official service or another person, wrongfully does an act by using such seals or impressions of the 
seal, or allows the other person to do so to the injury of another person or the public, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 275. Original section/article: 161. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be official to have the duty to make the document, to fill the contents in the 
document or to look after and to keep the document, to forge the document by virtue of the opportunity in 
exercising one self’s, functions, shall be imprisoned not out of ten years and fined not out of twenty thousand 
Baht.

Section 276. Original section/article: 162. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty of making a document, receiving a document or filling 
the contents in a document does any of the following acts in exercising his functions:
(1) To certify that he has done any act or that any act has been done in his presence, which is false;
(2) To certify that there is information of a matter of which there is no information;
(3) To omit to record a matter which he has the duty to record, or to make alteration of such matter in 
recording it; or
(4) To certify the fact which the document intends to prove as the truth, which is false,
Shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years and fine not exceeding fourteen thousand 
Baht.

Section 277. Original section/article: 163. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the duty in the post, telegraph or telephone service, wrongfully 
does any of the following acts:
(1) Breaking open or allowing the other person to break open the letter or other thing sent by post or 
telegraph;
(2) Damaging, destroying, losing or allowing the other person to damage, destroy or lose the letter or 
other thing sent by post or telegraph;
(3) Detaining, sending astray or delivering to another person to whom he knows not to be addressed the 
letter or other thing sent by post or telegraph; or
(4) Disclosing any information sent by post, telegraph or telephone,
Shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 278. Original section/article: 164. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official, wrongfully does any act so that the other person may have the 
knowledge of the official secret which is known or may be known to him, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 279. Original section/article: 165. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be official to have the duty to execute the law or order given for executing the law, to 
prevent or to obstruct the execution of such law or order, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not 
out of two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 280. Original section/article: 166. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official, deserts work, or does any act so that the work is interrupted or 
damaged, by jointly participating with other persons numbering together from five persons upwards, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If such offence is committed in order to bring about a change in the Laws of the Country, to coerce the 
Government or to intimidate the public, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten 
years and fined not exceeding twenty thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com
TITLE III
OFFENCE RELATING TO JUSTICE
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE AGAINST THE JUDICIAL OFFICIALS

Section 281. Original section/article: 167. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving, offering or agreeing to give the property or any other benefit to the official in the 
judicial post, Public Prosecutor, Official to conduct the cases or Inquiry Official so as to induce oneself 
wrongfully to do, or not to do the act or to delay the doing of any act, shall be imprisoned not out of seven 
years and fined not out of fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 282. Original section/article: 168. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, refusing to comply with the lawful requisition of a Public Prosecutor, official conducting 
cases or inquiry official requiring him to come and make statement, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding three months or fined not exceeding five hundred Baht, or both.

Section 283. Original section/article: 169. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, refusing to comply with the lawful requisition of the Public Prosecutor, official to 
conduct the cases or to inquiry official requiring oneself to forward of manage to be forwarded any property or 
document, to take the oath, to make the affirmation or to make the statement, shall be imprisoned not out of 
three months or fined not out of five hundred Baht, or both.

Section 284. Original section/article: 170. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, refusing to comply with a writ or order of the Court requiring him to come and make a 
statement, to come and give evidence or to forward any property or document in any judicial proceeding, 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding six months or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 285. Original section/article: 171. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, refusing to comply with the order of the Court to require one to take the oath, to make 
the affirmation or the statement, or to give the evidence, shall be imprisoned not out of six months or fined not 
out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 286. Original section/article: 172. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving any false information concerning a criminal offence, which may likely cause 
injury to the other person or the public, to the Public Prosecutor, official conducting cases, inquiry official or 
any official who has the power to investigate the criminal cases, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 287. Original section/article: 173. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving the information of the offence, which oneself Knowing not to have been 
committed, to the inquiry official or the official having the power to investigate the criminal cases, shall be 
imprisoned not out of three years and fined not out of six thousand Baht.

Section 288. Original section/article: 174. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the information according to

Section 289. Original section/article: 173. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
is in order to maliciously subject any 
person to the measures of safety, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years 
and fined not exceeding six thousand Baht.
If the information according to the first paragraph is in order to maliciously subject any person to a 
punishment or a heavier punishment, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five 
years and fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 290. Original section/article: 175. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, taking the false information to charge the person in the Court with the commission of 
the criminal offence out of it to be really, shah be imprisoned not out of five years and fined not out of ten 
thousand Baht.

Section 291. Original section/article: 176. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever any person having committed the offence according to

Section 292. Original section/article: 175. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
apologizes to the 
Court, and withdraws or amends the charge before the judgment of the Court is given, the Court shall inflict 
less punishment to any extent than that provided by the law, or the Court may not inflict the punishment at all.

Section 293. Original section/article: 177. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, giving a false evidence to the Court in the judicial proceedings, if such false evidence 
is an essential matter in the case, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not 
exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence mentioned in the first paragraph is committed in the criminal proceeding, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years and fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 294. Original section/article: 178. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, required by the official in the judicial post, Public Prosecutor, Official Conducting the 
cases or Inquiry Official to translate any of statement or means to render the wrong translation of such 
statement, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 295. Original section/article: 179. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, fabricating a false evidence in order that an inquiry official or an official who has the 
power to investigate the criminal cases may believe that any criminal offence has occurred, or may believe 
that the criminal offence occurred is more serious than it is really, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 296. Original section/article: 180. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, adducing or producing a false evidence in any judicial proceedings, if it is an 
evidence in an essential matter of the case, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or 
fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence mentioned in the first paragraph is committed in the criminal proceedings, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years and fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 297. Original section/article: 181. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offences according to

Section 298. Original section/article: 174. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 175, 177, 178 or 180:
(1) Is in the case charging any person with the commission of an offence whose punishment is 
imprisonment of three years upwards, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to 
seven years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht;
(2) Is in the case charging any person with the commission of an offence whose punishment is death or 
imprisonment for life, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of one to fifteen years and fined of two 
thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 299. Original section/article: 182. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having committed the offence according to

Section 300. Original section/article: 177. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 178, apologizes and 
declares the truth to the Court or an official before the conclusion of his statement or translation, shall not be 
punished.

Section 301. Original section/article: 183. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to have committed the offence under

Section 302. Original section/article: 178. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, apologized and 
declared the truth to the Court or the Official before the judgment to be given and before oneself to be 
charged with the offence committed, the Court may inflict less punishment to any extent than the prescribed 
by the law.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 303. Original section/article: 184. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to help the other person not to be punished or to receive less punishment, 
damages, destroys, conceals, makes away with, loses or renders useless an evidence in the commission of 
an offence, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 304. Original section/article: 185. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, concealing, making away with, losing or rendering useless any 
property or document deposited with the Court or kept by the Court in the judicial proceedings, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 305. Original section/article: 186. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, concealing, making away losing or rendering useless any of 
property forfeited by the judgment of the Court, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of 
one hundred Baht, or both.

Section 306. Original section/article: 187. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to prevent the execution of the judgment or order of the Court, damages, 
destroys, conceals, makes away with, loses or renders useless the property which is seized or attached, or 
which he knows likely to be seized or attached, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three 
years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 307. Original section/article: 188. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, concealing, making away, losing or rendering useless will or 
document of the other person in the manner likely to cause injury to another person or the public people, shall 
be imprisoned not out of five years and fined not out of ten thousand Baht.

Section 308. Original section/article: 189. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever assists the other person who commits or is alleged of having committed an offence 
which is not a petty offence so that such person may not be punished by giving him lodging, by hiding, or by 
assisting him by any means so that he may not be arrested, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 309. Original section/article: 190. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, escaping during confinement under the power of Court, a Public Prosecutor, an inquiry 
official or an official who has the power to investigate the criminal cases, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence as mentioned in the first paragraph is committed by breaking open the place of confinement, by 
doing any act of violence, by threatening to do any act of violence or by participation of three persons 
upwards, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding 
ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence according to this Section is committed by the offender carrying or using any gun, or explosive, 
the offender shall be liable to heavier punishment than that as provided in the two preceding paragraphs by 
one-half.

Section 310. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 311. Original section/article: 191. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means, causes to the persons under confinement by the power of Court, a 
Public Prosecutor, an inquiry official or an official who has the power to investigate the criminal cases to be 
released from such confinement, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not 
exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com
If the persons so released from such confinement are the persons sentenced by any Court to death, 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen years upwards, or numbering from three persons upwards, the 
offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to seven years and fined of one to fourteen 
thousand Baht.
If the offence according to this Section is committed by doing any act of violence, threatening to do any act of 
violence, or carrying or using any gun or explosive, the offender shall be liable to heavier punishment than 
that as provided in the two preceding paragraphs by one-half.

Section 312. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 313. Original section/article: 192. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, harboring, hiding or assisting with any means the person escaped from the lawful 
custody under the power of the Court, inquiry official or official empowered to investigate the criminal cases 
so as to such person may not be arrested, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 314. Original section/article: 193. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence mentioned in

Section 315. Original section/article: 184. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 189 or 192 is committed in order to help the father, 
mother, child, husband or wife, the Court may not inflict any punishment.

Section 316. Original section/article: 194. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be sentenced not to be entered the specified area under

Section 317. Original section/article: 45. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, to have 
entered in such areas, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 318. Original section/article: 195. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, escaping from an institution of treatment where the Court has given order to restrain 
him according to

Section 319. Original section/article: 49. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding six months or fined not 
exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 320. Original section/article: 196. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, violating the prohibition order of the Court given in the judgment under

Section 321. Original section/article: 50. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 
shall be imprisoned not out of six months or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 322. Original section/article: 197. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to do or threaten to do an act of violence, to give or agree to give the benefit for 
hindering or obstructing the public auction of the official on account of the judgment or order of the Court, 
shall be imprisoned not out of six months or fined not out of one thousand Baht or both.

Section 323. Original section/article: 198. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, insulting the Court or the judge in the trial or adjudication of the case, or obstructing 
the trial or adjudication of the Court, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to seven years or fined of two 
thousand to fourteen thousand Baht, or both.

Section 324. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in B.E. 
2519.

Section 325. Original section/article: 199. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, stealthily burying, concealing, removing or destroying the corpse or part of the corpse 
so as to conceal the birth, death or cause of death, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of 
two thousand Baht, or both.
CHAPTER 2
MALFEASANCE IN JUDICIAL OFFICE
www.thailawonline.com

Section 326. Original section/article: 200. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official in the post of a Public Prosecutor, an official conducting cases, an 
inquiry official, or an official who has the power to investigate the criminal cases or to execute a criminal 
warrant, wrongfully exercises or does not exercise any of his functions in order to assist any person not to 
receive punishment or to receive less punishment, shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to 
seven years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.
If such exercise or non-exercise is to maliciously cause any person to be punished, to be punished heavier or 
to be subjected to the measures of safety, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life or 
imprisonment of one to twenty years, and fined of two thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 327. Original section/article: 201. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the official in the judicial post, Public Prosecutor, official conducting the cases or 
the inquiry official, wrongfully to demand, accept or agree to accept the property or any other benefit for 
oneself or the other person so as to exercise or non-exercise any act, whether such exercise or non-exercise 
wrongfully oneself's function or not, shall be imprisoned as from five years to twenty years or life imprisonment 
and fined as from two thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht, or death.

Section 328. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act, B.E. 2502.

Section 329. Original section/article: 202. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official in a judicial post, a Public Prosecutor, an official conducting cases or 
an inquiry official, exercises or does not exercise any of his functions in consideration of a property or any 
other benefit which he has demanded, accepted or agreed to accept before his appointment to such post, 
shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty years or imprisonment for life, and fined of two thousand 
to forty thousand Baht, or death.

Section 330. Original section/article: 15. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Criminal Code Amendment Act, B.E. 2502.

Section 331. Original section/article: 203. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be the official having the duty executing the judgment or order of the Court, to 
prevent or the obstruct the execution of such judgment or order, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or 
fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 332. Original section/article: 204. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being an official having the function to control and to take care of any person in lawful 
custody under the power of the Court, an inquiry official or an official who has the power to investigate the 
criminal cases, causes, by any means whatever, such person to be released from the custody, shall be 
punished with imprisonment of one to seven years and fined of two thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.
If the persons so released from the custody be persons sentenced by any Court to death, to imprisonment for 
life or to imprisonment of fifteen years upwards, or numbering from three persons upwards, the offender shall 
be punished with imprisonment of two to ten years and fined of four thousand to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 333. Original section/article: 205. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence mentioned in

Section 334. Original section/article: 204. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
is committed by negligence, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.
If the persons so released from the custody by negligence be persons sentenced by any Court to death, 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen years upwards, or numbering from three persons upwards, the 
offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand 
Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com
If the offender causes the person released from the custody to be retaken within three months, the 
punishment inflicted upon the offender shall cease forthwith.
TITLE IV
OFFENCE RELATING TO RELIGION

Section 335. Original section/article: 206. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to do, by any means whatever, to the object or place of religious worship of any group 
of persons in the manner likely to insult such religion, shall be imprisoned as from two years to seven years or 
fined as from two thousand Baht to fourteen thousand Baht, or both.

Section 336. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in B.E. 
2519.

Section 337. Original section/article: 207. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to cause a disturbance at an assembly of religious persons lawfully engaged at the 
time of meeting in religious worship or performing religious ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 338. Original section/article: 208. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, wrongfully dressing or using the symbol manifesting that oneself to be Buddhist monk 
or novice, holyman or clergyman of any religion so as to make the other person to believe that oneself to be 
such person, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand Baht.
TITLE V
OFFENCE RELATING TO PUBLIC PEACE

Section 339. Original section/article: 209. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to be a member of a body of persons whose proceedings are secret and whose aim to 
be unlawful, is said to be a member of a secret society, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
seven years and fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht.
If the offender be the chief, manager or office-bearer in such body of persons, such person shall be punished 
with imprisonment not exceeding ten years and fined not exceeding twenty thousand Baht.

Section 340. Original section/article: 210. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever five persons upwards conspire to commit any offence provided in this Book I! and 
punishable with maximum imprisonment of one year upwards, every such person is said to be a member of a 
criminal association, and shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not 
exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If it be a conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment from 
ten years upwards, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of two to ten years and fined of four 
thousand to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 341. Original section/article: 211. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to meets in the meeting of secret society or criminal association, the person is said to 
commit the offence to be such secret society or criminal association unless such person can show that having 
met without the knowledge that being the meeting of secret society or criminal association.

Section 342. Original section/article: 212. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever:
www.thailawonline.com
(1) Procures a meeting place or lodge for a secret society or criminal association ;
(2) Induces a person to become a member of a secret society or criminal association ;
(3) Aids a member of secret society or criminal association by contribution of money or in any other way; or
(4) Assists in the disposal of property obtained by the secret society or criminal association through any 
offence, shall be punished likewise as a member of a secret society or criminal association, as the case may 
be.

Section 343. Original section/article: 213. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever an offence is committed by any member of a secret society or criminal association in 
prosecution of the common aim of such society or association, every member who was present at the time of 
the commission of such offence, or who was present at the meeting where the commission of such offence 
was decided upon, and the chief manager or office-bearer of such society or association, shall be liable to the 
punishment prescribed for such offence.

Section 344. Original section/article: 214. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, behaves habitually, lodges or procures the retreat place or meeting place to the 
persons whom oneself knowing to have the committed offence as provided by this Book 2, such person shall 
be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence to be committed so as to help the father, mother, child, husband or wife, the Court may not inflict 
any punishment at all.

Section 345. Original section/article: 215. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever ten persons upwards being assembled together do or threaten to do an act of 
violence, or do any thing to cause a breach of the peace, every such person shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding six months or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.
If any of the offenders carries an arm, all the offenders shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.
If the offender be the manager or person having the duty to give orders for the commission of the offence, 
such offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 346. Original section/article: 216. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
When the official orders any person assembled to gather so as to commit the offence as 
prescribed under

Section 347. Original section/article: 215. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to disperse, such person not to disperse shall be imprisoned not out of three 
years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.
TITLE VI
OFFENCE RELATING TO CAUSING PUBLIC DANGER

Section 348. Original section/article: 217. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, firing to the things belonging to the other person, shall be imprisoned as from six 
months to seven years or fined as from one thousand Baht to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 349. Original section/article: 218. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever sets fire to:
(1) A building, vessel or floating house in which a human being dwells;
(2) A building, vessel or floating house used for storage or manufacture of goods;
(3) A house of entertainment or meeting place;
www.thailawonline.com
(4) A building which is domain public of State, public place or place for performing religious ceremonies;
(5) A railway station, airport, or public parking or mooring place for cars or vessel;
(6) A steam-boat or motor-boat of five tons upwards, aeroplane or train used for public transportation, 
shall be punished with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment of five to twenty years.

Section 350. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 351. Original section/article: 219. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever preparing for committing the offence as aforesaid by

Section 352. Original section/article: 218. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall 
be punished in the same manner as attempting to commit that offence.

Section 353. Original section/article: 220. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, cause fire to any material even belonging to himself in a manner likely to cause injury 
to the other person or a thing belonging to the other person, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding seven years and fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence as mentioned in the first paragraph causes a fire to any of the things 
specified in

Section 354. Original section/article: 218. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the offender shall be punished as provided in

Section 355. Original section/article: 221. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to causing the explosion likely to cause injury to the other person or the thing 
belonging to the other person, shall be imprisoned not out of seven years and fined not out of fourteen 
thousand Baht.

Section 356. Original section/article: 222. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to cause an explosion so as to cause injury to any of the things mentioned in

Section 357. Original section/article: 217. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 218, shall be punished as provided in such Section.

Section 358. Original section/article: 223. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
For the aforesaid offence in

Section 359. Original section/article: 217. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 218, 220 or 222, if the injured things or likely to be 
injured is little value, and such act is not likely to cause the injury to the other person, the offender shall be 
imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 360. Original section/article: 224. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offence as mentioned in the

Section 361. Original section/article: 217. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 218, 221 or 222 causes death 
to the other person, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.
If it causes grievous bodily harm to the other person, the offender shall be punished with death, imprisonment 
for life or imprisonment of ten to twenty years.

Section 362. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 363. Original section/article: 225. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, causing fire by negligence and causing the fling belonging to the other person to be 
damaged, or likely to cause damage to the life of the other person, shall be imprisoned not out of seven years 
or fined not out of fourteen thousand Baht, or both.

Section 364. Original section/article: 226. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, to render a building, dock, public parking or mooring place 
for cars or vessel, buoy, structure, machinery, mechanical apparatus, electric wire or an equipment provided 
for the protection of persons or things from danger so as likely to cause danger to the other person, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 365. Original section/article: 227. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having the profession of design, control or construction, reparation or removal of 
building or structure, failing to comply with the rule or method to be duly carried out in such undertaking in the 
manner likely to cause the danger to the other person, shall be imprisoned not out of five years or fined not 
out of ten thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 366. Original section/article: 228. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, cause inundation or obstruction to the supply of water, which 
is a public utility, and if such act is likely to endanger the other person or a thing belonging to the other 
person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand 
Baht, or both.
If the commission of the offence as mentioned in the first paragraph causes danger to the other person or a 
thing belonging to the other person, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to seven 
years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 367. Original section/article: 229. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, renders a public way, sluice gate, dam or embankment, 
which is a part of a public way or taking off and landing place for aeroplanes to be in the condition as likely to 
cause danger to traffic, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding 
ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 368. Original section/article: 230. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to place any obstacle upon the railway or tramway to loosen or displace such railway 
or tramway or to make any thing to the signal in the manner likely to cause the danger to the running of 
railway-cars or tram-cars, shall be imprisoned as from six months to seven years and fined as from one 
thousand Baht to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 369. Original section/article: 231. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, renders a lighthouse, buoy, signal or any other thing provided 
as a signal for the safety of land traffic, navigation or air navigation to be in the condition as likely to cause 
danger to such land traffic, navigation or air navigation, shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to 
seven years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 370. Original section/article: 232. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, renders any of the following conveyances to be in the 
condition as likely to cause danger to a person:
(1) Sea-going vessel, aeroplane, train or tram;
(2) Motor-car used for public transportation; or
(3) Steam-boat or motor-boat of five tons upwards used for public transportation, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of six months to seven years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 371. Original section/article: 233. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to use the conveyance to transport the passengers, when such conveyance to be 
under the condition or to be loaded as likely to cause the danger to the persons in such conveyance, shall be 
imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 372. Original section/article: 234. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, to render an equipment used for production, transmission of 
electric energy or the supply of water so as to cause lack of convenience to the public, or likely to cause 
danger to the public, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 373. Original section/article: 235. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to do any act rendering the public communication of the post, telegraph, telephone or 
wireless to be obstructed, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 374. Original section/article: 236. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever to adulterate an article of food, drug or any other thing intended for human 
consumption or use, and such adulteration is likely to cause injury to health, or to sell or expose for sale such 
www.thailawonline.com
adulterated article for human consumption or use, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three 
years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 375. Original section/article: 237. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, introducing the poisonous substance or any other substance likely to cause injury to 
health into the food or water into any well, pond or reservoir, and such food or water to be existed or to be 
provided for the public consumption, shall be imprisoned as from six months to ten years and fined as from 
one thousand Baht to twenty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 376. Original section/article: 238. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offences committed according to Sections 226 to 237 causes death to the other person, 
the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of five to twenty years and fined of 
ten thousand to forty thousand Baht.
If it causes grievous bodily harm to another person, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of one 
to ten years and fined of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 377. Original section/article: 239. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the act as mentioned by

Section 378. Original section/article: 237. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
as being done by negligence to be result 
in the imminent danger to the life of the other person, doer shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not 
out of two thousand Baht, or both.
TITLE VII
OFFENCE RELATING TO COUNTERFEITING AND ALTERATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE RELATING TO CURRENCIES

Section 379. Original section/article: 240. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to counterfeit the currency, irrespective of whether to make as the coin, banknote or 
any the other thing to be used or authorized to be used by Government, or to counterfeit the Government 
bond or interest coupon attached to such bond, such person to be said to commit the offence of 
counterfeiting the currency, shall be imprisoned as from ten years to twenty years or fined as from ten years to 
twenty years and fined as from twenty thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht.

Section 380. Original section/article: 241. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever alters currency, whether it be a coin, bank-note or any other thing issued or authorized 
to be issued by the Government. or alters the Government bond or interest coupon attached to such bond 
with intent to make the other person to believe that it has a higher value than it really has, is said to commit an 
offence of altering currency, and shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of five to twenty 
years and fined of ten thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 381. Original section/article: 242. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever dishonestly diminishes the weight of a coin issued by the Government, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years and fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht.
Whoever brings into the Kingdom, or utters or possesses for uttering a coin whose weight has dishonestly 
been diminished according to the provision in the first paragraph, shall be liable to the same punishment.

Section 382. Original section/article: 243. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to bring any thing to be counterfeited according to

Section 383. Original section/article: 240. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or altered according to

Section 384. Original section/article: 241. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished as provided in such Section.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 385. Original section/article: 244. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, possesses for uttering any thing obtained by him, which he knows to be counterfeited 
according to

Section 386. Original section/article: 240. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or altered according to

Section 387. Original section/article: 241. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to 
fifteen years and fined of two thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 388. Original section/article: 245. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to utter any thing by not to know as being counterfeited according to

Section 389. Original section/article: 240. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 
altered according to

Section 390. Original section/article: 241. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, if subsequently upon having known as being counterfeited or altered still to 
be sued, shall be imprisoned not out of ten years or fined not out of twenty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 391. Original section/article: 246. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, makes an instrument or a material intended for counterfeiting or altering currency, 
whether it be a coin, bank-note or any other thing issued or authorized to be issued by the Government, or for 
counterfeiting or altering the Government bond or interest coupon attached to such bond, or possesses such 
instrument or material intended for use in counterfeit or alteration, shall be punished with imprisonment of five 
to fifteen years and fined of ten thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 392. Original section/article: 247. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offences mentioned in this Chapter be committed concerning currency, whether it be a 
coin, bank-note or any other thing issued or authorized to be issued by the foreign Government, or relating to 
the foreign Government bond or interest coupon attached to such bond, the offender shall be liable to one 
half of the punishment as provided in such Section.

Section 393. Original section/article: 248. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offender under

Section 394. Original section/article: 247. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
has committed under the other 
Section as prescribed by this Chapter dealing with the thing counterfeited or altered by oneself, such person 
shall be punished under

Section 395. Original section/article: 249. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, fabricates any kind of printed papers or pieces of metal, the characteristics and sizes 
of which resemble currency, whether it be a coin, bank-note or any thing issued or authorized to be issued by 
the Government, or the Government bond or interest coupon attached to such bond, or disposes the same, 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, or 
both.
If the disposal of the printed papers or pieces of metal mentioned in the first paragraph is the disposal by 
uttering as any thing as mentioned in the first paragraph, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENCE RELATING TO SEALS, STAMPS AND TICKETS

Section 396. Original section/article: 250. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to forge the State seal, State seal impression or King's Sign Manual, shall be 
imprisoned as from five years to twenty years and fined as from ten thousand Baht to forty thousand Baht.

Section 397. Original section/article: 251. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forges a seal or impression of such seal of a Political Bureau a public organization or 
an official, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to seven years and fined of two thousand to fourteen 
thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 398. Original section/article: 252. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, using the seal, seal impression or King's Sign Manual as mentioned under

Section 399. Original section/article: 251. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
as being the seal, seal impression or King's Sign Manual to be forged, shall be punished as 
provided by such Section.

Section 400. Original section/article: 253. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having obtained possession of the seal or impression of the seal mentioned in

Section 401. Original section/article: 250. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 251, which is genuine, wrongfully uses such seal or impression of such seal in a manner likely to cause 
injury to the other person or the public, shall be liable to two-thirds of the punishment as provided in

Section 402. Original section/article: 254. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forges a Government stamp used for postage, taxation or collection of fees, or alters a 
Government stamp used for such purposes in order to make other persons to believe that it has a higher 
value than it really has, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to seven years and fined of two thousand 
to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 403. Original section/article: 255. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, bringing the State seal, State seal impression, King's Sign Manual, seal or seal 
impression of Political Bureau, public organization or official, or stamp as specified under

Section 404. Original section/article: 250. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 251 or 
254 which to be forged or altered, shall be imprisoned as from one year to ten years and fined as from two 
thousand Baht to twenty thousand Baht.

Section 405. Original section/article: 256. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, erases, removes or does by any means whatever to the Government stamp as 
specified in

Section 406. Original section/article: 254. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, which has mark or has done any act to it to denote that it can not longer be used, in 
order that it may be used again, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not 
exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 407. Original section/article: 257. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, using, selling, offering for sale, exchanging or offering for exchange the stamp 
begotten from the commission as aforesaid by

Section 408. Original section/article: 256. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
whether commission under such 
Section being committed inside or outside the Kingdom, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined 
not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 409. Original section/article: 258. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forges or alters a ticket used in public transportation with intent to make other persons 
to believe that it is a higher value than it really has, or erases, removes or does by any means whatever to it 
which has a mark or has done any act to it to denote that it has been used, in order that it may be used again, 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 410. Original section/article: 259. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission under

Section 411. Original section/article: 258. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
as commission relating to tickets disposed to public people 
for entering into any place, the doer shall he imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand 
Baht, or both.

Section 412. Original section/article: 260. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, uses, sells, offers for sale, exchanges or offers for exchange the ticket begotten from 
the commission of the offence mentioned in

Section 413. Original section/article: 258. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 259, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 414. Original section/article: 261. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, makes the instrument or material for forging or altering any thing as specified in

Section 415. Original section/article: 254. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 258 or 259, or possesses such instrument or material for use in forging or altering, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 416. Original section/article: 262. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence mentioned in

Section 417. Original section/article: 254. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 256, 257 or 261 be committed relating to the foreign 
Government stamps, the offender shall be liable to one-half of the punishment as provided for such Section.

Section 418. Original section/article: 263. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offender under

Section 419. Original section/article: 262. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to have committed the offence under the other Section as prescribed in this 
Chapter relating to the thing to be begotten from the commission of offence also, that person shall be 
punished according to

Section 420. Original section/article: 262. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
for one count only.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENCE RELATING TO DOCUMENTS

Section 421. Original section/article: 264. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in a manner likely to cause injury to another person or the public, fabricates a false 
document or part of a document, or adds to, takes from or otherwise alters a genuine document by any 
means whatever, or puts a false seal or signature to a document, if it is committed in order to make any 
person to believe that it is a genuine document, is said to forge a document, and shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
Whoever, fills in the contents on a sheet of paper or any other material bearing the signature of another 
person without the consent or by violating the order of such person, if it has committed in order to take such 
document for use in any activities which may cause injury to any person or the public, shall be deemed to 
forge a document, and shall be punished likewise.

Section 422. Original section/article: 265. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forges a document of right or official document, shall be punished with imprisonment 
of six months to five years and fined of one thousand to ten thousand Baht.

Section 423. Original section/article: 266. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever forges any of the following documents:
(1) A document of right, which is an official document;
(2) A will;
(3) A share certificate or debenture, or share warrant or debenture warrant;
(4) A bill; or
(5) A negotiable certificate of deposit, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to ten years and fined of 
twenty thousand to two hundred thousand Baht.

Section 424. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 12), B.E. 2535.

Section 425. Original section/article: 267. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, notifying the official doing oneself's duty to make any false entry in the public or official 
document for the aims to be used as evidence, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of 
six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 426. Original section/article: 268. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in a manner likely to cause injury to another person or the public, makes use of, or 
cites the document begotten from the commission of the offence according to

Section 427. Original section/article: 264. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 265, 266 or 267, 
shall be liable to the punishment as provided in such Section.
www.thailawonline.com
If the offender according to the first paragraph be the person who himself forges such document, or causes 
an official to make such entry, such offender shall be punished according to this Section for one count only.

Section 428. Original section/article: 269. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in the pursuance of work in the medicine, law, accountancy or any other profession, 
making the certification of false document by the manner likely to cause injury to the other person or the 
public people, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of four thousand Baht, or both.
Whoever, dishonestly using or citing the certification begotten from the commission of offence according to 
the paragraph 1, shall be punished in the same manner.
CHAPTER 4
OFFENCE RELATING TO THE ELECTRONIC CARD

Section 429. Original section/article: 269/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forges the electronic card in whole or in part, adds or cuts statement or amends by 
any means whatever in the genuine electronic card in manner likely to cause injury to other person or people. 
If that card is made in order to anyone believing that it is the genuine electronic card or for the benefit in any 
respect, such person commits the electronic card forgery and shall be punished imprisonment from one year 
to five years and fined from two ten thousands Baht to hundred thousands Baht.

Section 430. Original section/article: 269/2. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever makes the instruments or materials for counterfeit or alteration or for acquiring the 
data in counterfeiting or altering anything specified in

Section 431. Original section/article: 269/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or has such instrument or material. As 
aforesaid, for using or acquiring the data in counterfeiting or altering, such person shall be punished 
imprisonment from one year to five years and fined from two ten thousands Baht to hundred thousand Baht.

Section 432. Original section/article: 269/3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever brings into or sends out of anything from Kingdom in accordance with

Section 433. Original section/article: 26912. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, such person shall be punished imprisonment from three years to ten years and fined from 
six ten thousands Baht to hundred thousands Baht.

Section 434. Original section/article: 269/4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever uses or has for the sake of using anything in accordance with

Section 435. Original section/article: 259/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
which is 
obtained possession of knowledge that it is the made falsification or counterfeit, such person shall be 
punished imprisonment from one year to seven years or fined from two ten thousands Baht to hundred 
thousand Baht to four ten thousands Baht or both imprisonment and fine.
Whoever sells or has for selling anything forged or counterfeited in accordance with

Section 436. Original section/article: 269/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, such 
person shall be punished imprisonment from one year to ten years or fined from two ten thousands Baht to 
two hundred thousands Baht or both imprisonment and fine.
If offender in accordance with first paragraph or second paragraph forges the electronic card in accordance 
with

Section 437. Original section/article: 269/1. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, such offender shall be punished in accordance with this Section in only count.

Section 438. Original section/article: 269/5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever uses the electronic card of other person wrongfully in a manner likely to cause 
detriment of other person or people, such person shall be punished imprisonment not more than five years or 
fined not more than hundred thousands Baht or both fined and imprisonment.

Section 439. Original section/article: 269/6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever has to use the electronic card of other person wrongfully in accordance with

Section 440. Original section/article: 269/5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
in a manner likely to cause detriment to other person or people, such person shall be punished 
www.thailawonline.com
imprisonment not more than three years or fined not more than six ten thousands Baht or both imprisonment 
and fine.

Section 441. Original section/article: 269/7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If commission of an offence as aforesaid in this Chapter is doings in respect of the electronic 
card which issuer has issued to person entitled to use for the satisfaction of paying goods. Service or other 
debt in lieu of ready money or use to draw and withdraw ready money, such doer shall be punished more 
punishment than as one prescribed in that Sections as the half of them.
Nature 4, the Offence According to Electronic Card of nature 8, the Offence According to Change,

Section 442. Original section/article: 269/7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 
prescribed and added by the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 17), B.E. 2547 of

Section 443. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
TITLE VIII
OFFENCE RELATING TO TRADE

Section 444. Original section/article: 270. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, uses or possesses for use an instrument of weighing, a weight or measure, which is 
contrary to standard in order to take advantage in trade, or possesses such instrument, weight or measure for 
sale, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand 
Baht, or both.

Section 445. Original section/article: 271. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, selling the goods be any fraudulent and deceitful means in order to deceive the buyer 
as to the origin source, nature, quality or such goods quantity, if such act not constitute cheating and fraud, 
shall be imprisoned not out of three year or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 446. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 4), B.E. 2522.

Section 447. Original section/article: 272. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever:
(1) Uses a name, figure, artificial mark or any wording in the carrying on trade of the other person, or causes 
the same to appear on a goods, packings, coverings, advertisements, price lists, business letters or the like in 
order to make the public to believe that it is the goods or trade of such other person;
(2) Imitates a signboard or the like so that the public are likely to believe that his trading premises are those 
of another person situated nearby;
(3) Circulates or propagates the false statement in order to bring discredit to the trading premises, goods, 
industry or commerce of any person with a view to obtaining benefit for his trade, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.
The offence under this Section is a compoundable offence.

Section 448. Original section/article: 273. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, forging the registered trade-mark of other person, whether to be registered inside or 
outside the Kingdom, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 449. Original section/article: 274. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, imitates the registered trade-mark of the other person, whether it be registered within 
or outside the Kingdom in order to make the public to believe that it is the registered trade-mark of such other 
person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand 
Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 450. Original section/article: 275. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, bringing into the Kingdom, disposing or exposing for disposing the goods bearing the 
name, figure, artificial mark or any wording as prescribed by

Section 451. Original section/article: 272. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(1), or the goods bearing the forged 
or imitated trade-mark to belong to the other person under

Section 452. Original section/article: 274. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished in 
such Section.
TITLE IX
OFFENCE RELATING TO SEXUALITY

Section 453. Original section/article: 276. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever has sexual intercourse with a woman, who is not wife, against her will, by threatening 
by any means whatever, by doing any act of violence, by taking advantage of the woman being in the 
condition of inability to resist, or by causing the woman to mistake him for the other person, shall be punished 
with imprisonment of four to twenty years and fined of eight thousand to forty thousand Baht.
If the offence as mentioned in the first paragraph is committed by carrying or using any gun or explosive, or 
participation of persons in the nature of destroying the woman, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years and fined of thirty thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for 
life.

Section 454. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 455. Original section/article: 277. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, has sexual intercourse with a girl not yet over fifteen years of age and not being his 
own wife, whether such girl shall consent or not, shall be punished with imprisonment of four to twenty years 
and fined of eight thousand to forty thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph is committed against a girl not yet over 
thirteen years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of seven to twenty years and fined of 
fourteen thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life.
If the commission of the offence according to the first or second paragraph is committed by participation of 
persons in the nature for destroying a girl and such girl is not consent, or by carrying the gun or explosive, or 
by using the arms, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life.
The offence as provided in the first paragraph, if the offender being the man commits against the girl over 
thirteen years but not yet over fifteen years of age with her consent and the Court grants such man and girl to 
marry together afterwards, the offender shall not be punished for such offence. If the Court grants them to 
marry together during the offender be still inflicted with the punishment, the Court shall release such offender.

Section 456. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 2350.

Section 457. Original section/article: 277 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph of

Section 458. Original section/article: 276. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or the first or 
second paragraph of

Section 459. Original section/article: 277. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, causes:
(1) Grievous bodily harm to the victim, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of fifteen to twenty 
years and fined of thirty thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life;
(2) Death to the victim, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 460. Original section/article: 277 ter. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offence according to the second paragraph of

Section 461. Original section/article: 276. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or the 
third paragraph of

Section 462. Original section/article: 277. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, causes:
(1) Grievous bodily harm to the victim, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life
(2) Death to the victim, the offender shall be punished with death.

Section 463. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), 
B.E. 2530.

Section 464. Original section/article: 278. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing an indecent act to the person out of fifteen years of age by threatening with 
any means, by doing any act of violence, by taking advantage of that person to be in the condition of inability 
to resist, or by causing that person to mistake him for the other person, shall be imprisoned not out of ten 
years or fined not out of twenty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 465. Original section/article: 279. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits an indecent act on a child not yet over fifteen years of age, whether such 
child shall consent or not, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten years or fined not 
exceeding twenty thousand Baht, or both.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph, the offender commits it by threatening by 
any means whatever, by doing any act of violence, by taking advantage of such child being in the condition of 
inability to resist, or by causing such child to mistake him for another person, the offender shall be punished 
with imprisonment not exceeding fifteen years or fined not exceeding thirty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 466. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 
2530.

Section 467. Original section/article: 280. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of offence according to the

Section 468. Original section/article: 279. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
causes:
(1) Grievous bodily harm to the victim, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty 
years and fined of ten thousand to forty thousand Baht;
(2) Death to the victim, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 469. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 470. Original section/article: 281. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The commission of offence according to the paragraph 1 of

Section 471. Original section/article: 278. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, if not 
to occur in the public, not to cause the grievous bodily harm or death to the victim, not commit against the 
person as specified in this Section, it shall be the compoundable offence.

Section 472. Original section/article: 9. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 473. Original section/article: 282. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to gratify the sexual desire of another person, procures, seduces or takes 
away for indecent act the man or woman with his or her consent, shall be punished with imprisonment of one 
to ten years and fined of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph is occurred to the person over fifteen years 
but not yet over eighteen years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen 
years and fined of six thousand to thirty thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph is occurred to the child not yet over fifteen 
years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty years and fined of ten 
thousand to forty thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com
Whoever, in order to gratify the sexual desire of another person, obtains the person who is procured, seduced 
or taken away according to the first, second or third paragraph or supports in such commission of offence, 
shall be liable to the punishment as provided in the first, second or third paragraph, as the case may be.

Section 474. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 14), B.E. 2540.

Section 475. Original section/article: 283. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to gratify the sexual desire of another person, procures, seduces or takes 
away for indecent act a man or woman by using deceitful means, threat, doing an act of violence, unjust 
influence or mode of coercion by any other means, shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty 
years and fined of ten thousand to forty thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph is occurred to the person over fifteen years 
but not yet over eighteen years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of seven to twenty 
years and fined of fourteen thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph is occurred to the child not yet over fifteen 
years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to twenty years and fined twenty 
thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life, or death.
Whoever, in order to gratify the sexual desire of another person, obtains the person who is procured, seduced 
or taken away according to the first, second or third paragraph, or supports in such commission of offence, 
shall be liable to the punishment as provided in the first, second or third paragraph, as the case may be.

Section 476. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 14), B.E. 2540.

Section 477. Original section/article: 283 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, takes away the person over fifteen years but not yet over eighteen years of age for 
indecent act with consent of such person, shall be punished with imprisonment of not exceeding five years or 
fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the commission of offence according to the first paragraph is occurred to the child not yet over the fifteen 
years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding seven years or fined not 
exceeding fourteen thousand Baht, or both.
Whoever, conceals the person who is taken away according to the first or second paragraph, shall be liable to 
punishment as provided in the first or second paragraph, as the case may be.
If the offences according to the first and third paragraph are specially occurred in the case of committing to 
the person exceeding the fifteen years of age, they are compoundable offences.

Section 478. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 14), B.E. 2540.

Section 479. Original section/article: 284. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, takes away an another person for indecent act by using deceitful means, threat, doing 
any act of violence, unjust influence or mode of coercion by any other means, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one of ten years and fined of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
Whoever, conceals the person who is taken away according to the first paragraph, shall be liable to the same 
punishment as the person who takes away.
The offence according to this Section is compoundable offence.

Section 480. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 14), B.E. 2540.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 481. Original section/article: 285. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If committing the offence under

Section 482. Original section/article: 283. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
to be act against the descendant, pupil under taken 
oneself's care, person under oneself's control according to oneself official authority, or person under oneself's 
tutorship, guardianship or courtship, such offender shall be punished by the heavier punishment then that as 
prescribed in that Section by one-third.

Section 483. Original section/article: 10. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 484. Original section/article: 286. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any person, being over sixteen years of age, subsists on the earning of a prostitute, even it is 
some part of her incomes, shall be punished with imprisonment of seven to twenty years and fined of fourteen 
thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life.
Any person has no other apparent or sufficient means of subsistence, and:
(1) Is found residing or habitually associating with one or more prostitutes;
(2) Takes board and lodging, or receives money or any other benefit arranged for by a prostitute; or
(3) Take part in order to help any prostitute in her quarrel with her customer,
The provisions of this Section shall not be applied to any person who receives maintenance from a prostitute 
who is bound to give maintenance according to law or morality.

Section 485. Original section/article: 5. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 486. Original section/article: 287. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever:
(1) For the purpose of trade or by trade, for public distribution or exhibition, makes, produces, possesses, 
brings or causes to be brought into the Kingdom, sends or causes to be sent out of the Kingdom, takes away 
or causes to be taken away, or circulates by any means whatever, any document, drawing, print, painting, 
printed matter, picture, poster, symbol, photograph, cinematograph film, noise tape, picture tape or any other 
thing which is obscene;
(2) Carries on trade, or takes part or participates in the trade concerning the aforesaid obscene material 
or thing, or distributes or exhibits to the public, or hires out such material or thing;
(3) In order to assist in the circulation or trading of the aforesaid obscene material or thing, propagates or 
spreads the news by any means whatever that there is a person committing the act which is an offence 
according to this Section, or propagates or spreads the news that the aforesaid obscene material or thing 
may be obtained from any person or by any means, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three 
years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 487. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal. Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.
TITLE X
OFFENCE AGAINST LIFE AND BODY
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE CAUSING DEATH
www.thailawonline.com

Section 488. Original section/article: 288. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, murdering the other person, shall be imprisoned by death or imprisoned as from fifteen 
years to twenty years.

Section 489. Original section/article: 289. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits murder on:
(1) An ascendant;
(2) An official in the exercise of his functions, or by reason of exercising or having exercised his 
functions;
(3) A person who assists an official in the exercise of his functions, or by reason of the fact that such 
person will assist or has assisted the said official;
(4) The other person by premeditation;
(5) The other person by employing torture or acts of cruelty;
(6) The other person for the purpose of preparing or facilitating the commission of the other offence; or
(7) The other person for the purpose of securing the benefit obtained through the other offence, or 
concealing the other offence or escaping punishment for the other offence committed by him, shall be 
punished with death.

Section 490. Original section/article: 290. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, causes death to the other person by inflicting injury upon the body of such person 
without intent to cause death, shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years.
If the offence being committed under any of the circumstances mentioned in

Section 491. Original section/article: 289. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the offender shall 
be punished with imprisonment of three to twenty years.

Section 492. Original section/article: 291. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, doing the act by negligence and that act causing the other person to death, shall be 
imprisoned not out of ten years or fined not out of twenty thousand Baht.
1
;;$

Section 493. Original section/article: 292. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, practicing the cruelty or employing the similar factor on the person to have depended 
on him for subsistence or any other activities so as to that person shall commit the suicide, if suicide to have 
occurred or to have been attempted, shall be imprisoned not out seven years and fined not out of fourteen 
thousand Baht.

Section 494. Original section/article: 293. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever aids or instigates a child not over sixteen years of age, or a person who is unable to 
understand the nature and importance of his act or who is unable to control his act, to commit suicide, shall, if 
suicide has occurred or has been attempted, be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or 
fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 495. Original section/article: 294. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in as affray among three persons upwards, and any person, whether such person to 
be participant in such affray or not, to be death, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of 
four thousand Baht, or both.
If the participant in such affray can show that oneself has acted so as to prevent such affray or to prevent 
lawfully, such participant shall not be punished.
CHAPTER 2
www.thailawonline.com
OFFENCE AGAINST BODY

Section 496. Original section/article: 295. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, causes injury to the other person in body or mind is said to commit bodily harm, and 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 497. Original section/article: 296. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing bodily harm, if such offence having any circumstance as prescribed by

Section 498. Original section/article: 289. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 499. Original section/article: 297. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits bodily harm, and thereby causing the victim to receive grievous bodily harm, 
shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to ten years.
Grievous bodily harms are as follows:
(1) Deprivation of the sight, deprivation of the hearing, cutting of the tongue or loss of the sense of smelling;
(2) Loss of genital organs or reproductive ability;
(3) Loss of an arm, leg, hand, foot, finger or any other organ;
(4) Permanent disfiguration of face;
(5) Abortion;
(6) Permanent insanity;
(7) Infirmity or chronic illness which may last throughout life;
(8) Infirmity or illness causing the sufferer to be in severe bodily pain for over twenty days or to be unable 
to follow the ordinary pursuits for over twenty days.

Section 500. Original section/article: 298. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing the offence under

Section 501. Original section/article: 297. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
under any circumstance as prescribed by

Section 502. Original section/article: 289. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be imprisoned as from two years to ten years.

Section 503. Original section/article: 299. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whenever, grievous bodily harm is caused to any person in an affray in which three persons 
upwards are engaged, whether such person be a participant in such affray or not, the participants in such 
affray shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, 
or both.
If the participant in such affray can show that he has acted in order to prevent such affray or in lawful defense, 
he shall not be punished.

Section 504. Original section/article: 300. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing the act by negligence and such act to cause the grievous bodily harm to 
the other person, shall be imprisoned three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENCE OF ABORTION

Section 505. Original section/article: 301. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Any woman, causing herself to be aborted or allowing the other person to procure the abortion 
for herself, shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 506. Original section/article: 302. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, procures abortion for a woman with her consent, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com
If such act causes other grievous bodily harm to the woman also, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding seven years or fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht, or both.
If such act causes death to the woman, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten 
years and fined not exceeding twenty thousand Baht.

Section 507. Original section/article: 303. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, procures abortion for a woman without her consent, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding seven years or fined not exceeding fourteen thousand Baht, or both.
If such act causes other grievous bodily harm to the woman also, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to ten years and fined of two thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If such act causes death to the woman, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to twenty 
years and fined of ten thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 508. Original section/article: 304. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, attempts to commit the offence according to

Section 509. Original section/article: 301. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 302, first paragraph, shall 
not be punished.

Section 510. Original section/article: 305. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence mentioned in

Section 511. Original section/article: 301. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
and 302, be committed by a medical practitioner, and:
(1) It is necessary for the sake of the health of such woman; or
(2) The woman is pregnant on account of the commission of the offence as provided in

Section 512. Original section/article: 276. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 277, 
282, 283 or 284 the offender is not guilty.
CHAPTER 4
OFFENCE OF ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN, SICK PERSONS OR AGED PERSONS

Section 513. Original section/article: 306. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, abandons a child not over nine years of age in any place, with intent to wholly 
abandon such child in a manner so that such child shall be without a person to take care of, shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 514. Original section/article: 307. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to have the duty according to the law or the have the contract taking care of the 
person in the helpless condition through age, because of sickness, infirmity in body or mind, abandoning 
such person in the manner likely to endanger his or her life, shall be imprisoned out of three years or fined not 
out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 515. Original section/article: 308. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offence according to

Section 516. Original section/article: 306. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 307 causes death or grievous 
bodily harm to the abandoned person, the offender shall be punished as provided in

Section 517. Original section/article: 290. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 297 or 298.
TITLE XI
OFFENCE AGAINST LIBERTY AND REPUTATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE AGAINST LIBERTY

Section 518. Original section/article: 309. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, compels the other person to do or not to do any act, or to suffer any thing by putting 
him in fear of injury to life, body, liberty, reputation or property of him or another person, or commits violence 
www.thailawonline.com
so that he does or does not do such act, or suffers such thing, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence according to the first paragraph be committed by making use of arms or by five persons 
upwards participating, or it be committed in order that the compelled person shall execute, revoke, damage 
or destroy any document of right, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years 
or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence be committed by alluding to the power of the secret society or criminal association, whether it 
be existent or not, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of one to seven years and fined of two 
thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 519. Original section/article: 310. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, detains or confines the other person, or by any other means whatever, deprives such 
person of the liberty of person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not 
exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph causes death or grievous bodily harm to 'the 
person detained, confined or deprived of the liberty of person, the offender shall be punished as provided in

Section 520. Original section/article: 310 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, detaining or confining the other person or making in any manner to deprive other 
person without liberty bodily and making such other person to do any act for the doer or other person, shall 
be imprisoned not out of five years or fined not out of ten thousand Baht.

Section 521. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 13), B.E. 2537.

Section 522. Original section/article: 311. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by negligence causes the other person to be detained, confined or deprived of the 
liberty of person, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding two 
thousand Baht, or both.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph causes death or grievous bodily harm to the 
person detained, confined or deprived of the liberty of person, the offender shall be punished as provided in

Section 523. Original section/article: 312. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, so as to enslave the person or to cause the person to be in the position similar to the 
slave, bringing into or sending out of the Kingdom, removing, buying, selling, disposing, accepting or 
restraining any person, shall be imprisoned not out of seven years and fined not out of fourteen thousand 
Baht.

Section 524. Original section/article: 312 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the commission of the offence according to

Section 525. Original section/article: 312. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
is committed to 
the child not exceeding fifteen years of age, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of three to ten 
years and fined not exceeding twenty thousand Baht.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph or

Section 526. Original section/article: 312. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
causes:
(1) Bodily harm or mental harm to the victim, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to 
fifteen years and fined not exceeding thirty thousand Baht;
(2) Grievous bodily harm to the victim, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life or 
imprisonment of seven to twenty years;
www.thailawonline.com
(3) Death to the victim, the offender shall be punished with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment of 
fifteen to twenty years.

Section 527. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 13), B.E. 2537.

Section 528. Original section/article: 312 ter. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by dishonestly, accepting, disposing, procuring, seducing or taking away the 
person over fifteen years but not yet over eighteen years of age by such person's consent, shall be 
imprisoned not out of five years or fined not out of ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the committing the offence according to paragraph 1 committed to the child not yet out of fifteen years of 
age, such offender shall be not out of seven years or fined not out of fourteen thousand Baht, or both.

Section 529. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 14), B.E. 2540.

Section 530. Original section/article: 313. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to obtain a ransom:
(1) Takes away a child not yet over fifteen years of age;
(2) Takes away a person over fifteen years of age by using deceitful means, threat, doing any act of 
violence, unjust influence or mode of coercion by any other means; or
(3) Restrains or detains any person, shall be punished with imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years and fined 
of thirty thousand to forty thousand Baht, or imprisonment for life, or death.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph causes grievous bodily harm to such person 
taken away, restrained or detained, or is by acts of torture or hardly cruelty so as to cause bodily harm or 
mental harm to such person, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.
If the commission of such offence causes death to the person taken away, restrained or detained, the 
offender shall be punished with death.

Section 531. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 2530.

Section 532. Original section/article: 314. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be a supporter to the commission of the offence according to

Section 533. Original section/article: 313. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be 
liable to the same punishment as a principal in such offence.

Section 534. Original section/article: 315. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to act as the intermediary person, to demanding, accepting or agreeing to accept any 
property or benefit to which not to be entitled from the offender under

Section 535. Original section/article: 313. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or from the person who will 
give the ransom, shall be imprisoned as from fifteen years to twenty years and fined as from thirty thousand 
Baht to forty thousand Baht, or life imprisonment.

Section 536. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 537. Original section/article: 316. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offender according to

Section 538. Original section/article: 313. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 314 or 315 arranges for the person who is taken away, 
restrained or confined to regain his liberty before the judgment of the Court of First Instance without receiving 
grievous bodily harm or being in the condition of imminent danger to life, such offender shall be inflicted with 
less punishment than that provided by the law, but not less than one-half.

Section 539. Original section/article: 317. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, without reasonable cause, takes away a child not yet over fifteen years of age from the 
parent, guardian or person looking after such child, shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen 
years and fined of six thousand to thirty thousand Baht.
Whoever dishonestly buys, disposes of or accepts such child to taken away according to the first paragraph, 
shall be liable to the same punishment as the person who takes the child away.
www.thailawonline.com
If the offence of this Section has committed for lucre or indecent purpose, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of five to twenty years and fined of ten thousand to forty thousand Baht.

Section 540. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 2530.

Section 541. Original section/article: 318. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, takes away a minor over fifteen years but not yet over eighteen years of age from the 
parent, guardian or person looking after such minor against a will of such minor, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of two to ten years and fined of four thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
Whoever dishonestly buys, disposes of or accepts a minor to taken away according to the first paragraph, 
shall be liable to the same punishment as the person who takes such minor away.
If the offence according to this Section has committed for lucre or indecent purpose, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years and fined of six thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 542. Original section/article: 319. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, takes away a minor over fifteen years of age but not yet over eighteen years of age 
from the parent, guardian or person looking after such minor for lucre or indecent purpose with the consent of 
such minor, shall be punished with imprisonment of two to ten years and fined of four thousand to twenty 
thousand Baht.
Whoever dishonestly buys, disposes, or accepts a minor to taken away according to the first paragraph, shall 
be liable to the same punishment as the person who takes such minor away.

Section 543. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 
2530.

Section 544. Original section/article: 320. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by using fraudulent or deceitful means, threat, violence, unjust influence or any other 
means of compulsion, takes or sends a person out of the Kingdom, shall be punished with imprisonment of 
two to ten years or fined of four thousand to twenty thousand Baht, or both.
If the commission of the offence according to the first paragraph be committed in order that the person taken 
or sent out to be under the power of the other person unlawfully, or in order to abandon such person to be in a 
helpless condition, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years and fined of six 
thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 545. Original section/article: 10. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 546. Original section/article: 309. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the first paragraph,

Section 547. Original section/article: 310. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the first paragraph, and

Section 548. Original section/article: 311. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the first paragraph, are the compoundable offences.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENCE OF DISCLOSURE OF PRIVATE SECRETS

Section 549. Original section/article: 322. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, breaking open or taking away the closed letter, telegram or any document belonging 
to the other person so as to ascertain or to disclose its contents, if such act to be likely to cause injury to any 
person, shall be imprisoned not out of six months or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 550. Original section/article: 323. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, knows or acquires a private secret of another person by reason of his functions as a 
competent official or his profession as a medical practitioner, pharmacist, druggist, midwife, nursing 
www.thailawonline.com
attendant, priest, advocate, lawyer or auditor, or by reason of being an assistant in such profession, and then 
discloses such private secret in a manner likely to cause injury to any person, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding six months or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.
A person undergoing training and instruction in the profession mentioned in the first paragraph has known or 
acquired the private secret of another person in the training and instruction in such profession, and discloses 
such private secret in a manner likely to cause injury to any person, shall be liable to the same punishment.

Section 551. Original section/article: 324. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, on the ground that oneself having the duty, professing to call the trust, having known 
or acquired the secret according to industry, discovery or scientific invention, disclosing or using such secret 
for the benefit of oneself or other person, shall be imprisoned not out of six months or fined not out of one 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 552. Original section/article: 325. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter are compoundable offences.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENCE OF DEFAMATION

Section 553. Original section/article: 326. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, imputes anything to the other person before a third person in a manner likely to impair 
the reputation of such other person or to expose such other person to be hated or scorned, is said to commit 
defamation, and shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one year or fined not exceeding twenty 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 554. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 11), B.E. 2535.

Section 555. Original section/article: 327. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, imputing any thing the deceased person before the third person, and that imputation 
to be likely to impair the reputation of the father, mother, spouse or child of the deceased or to expose that 
person hated or scammed to be said to commit defamation, and shall be punished as prescribed by

Section 556. Original section/article: 328. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence of defamation be committed by means of publication of a document, drawing, 
painting, cinematography film, picture or letters made visible by any means, gramophone record or an other 
recording instruments, recording picture or letters, or by broadcasting or spreading picture, or by 
propagation by any other means, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years 
and fined not exceeding two hundred thousand Baht.

Section 557. Original section/article: 4. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 11), B.E. 2535.

Section 558. Original section/article: 329. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in good faith, expresses any opinion or statement:
(1) By way of self justification or defense, or for the protection of a legitimate interest;
(2) In the status of being an official in the exercise of his functions;
(3) By way of fair comment on any person or thing subjected to public criticism; or
(4) By way of fair report of the open proceeding of any Court or meeting, shall not be guilty of defamation.

Section 559. Original section/article: 330. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of defamation, if the person prosecuted for defamation can prove that the imputation 
made by him is true, he shall not be punished.
www.thailawonline.com
But he shall not be allowed to prove if such imputation concerns personal matters, and such proof will not be 
benefit to the public.

Section 560. Original section/article: 331. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The party in a case or party's lawyer expressing opinion or statement in the proceeding of the 
Court in favor of his case, shall not be offence of defamation.

Section 561. Original section/article: 332. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
In case of defamation in which judgment is given that the accused is guilty, the Court may give 
order:
(1) To seize and destroy the defamatory matter or part thereof;
(2) To publish the whole or part of the judgment in one or more newspapers once or several times at the 
expense of the accused.

Section 562. Original section/article: 333. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter are compoundable offences.
If the injured person in the defamation dies before making a complaint, the father, mother, spouse or child of 
the deceased may make a complaint, and it shall be deemed that such person is the injured person.
TITLE XII
OFFENCE AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
OFFENCE OF THEFT AND SNATCHING

Section 563. Original section/article: 334. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, dishonestly taking away the thing of other person or which the other person to be co-
owner to be said to commit the theft, shall be imprisoned not out of three years and fined not out of six 
thousand Baht.

Section 564. Original section/article: 335. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever commits theft under any of the following circumstances:
(1) By night;
(2) In the place or precinct where there is fire, explosion, flood, or in the place or precinct where there is an 
accident, distress to railway or other public conveyance or other similar calamity, or by taking advantage of 
such accident, distress or calamity, or by taking advantage of any public panic;
(3) By damaging a barricade made for the protection of persons or things, or by penetrating through such 
barricade by any means whatever;
(4) By using a passage not intended for human entrance, or a passage opened by an accomplice;
(5) By disguising himself, or by impersonating another person, or by blackening his face or doing otherwise 
so that he may not be seen or recognized;
(6) By falsely pretending that he is an official;
(7) By carrying arms, or by having two persons upwards participating;
(8) In a dwelling place, official place or place provided for public service which he has entered without 
permission, or has hidden himself therein;
(9) In a place of public worship, a railway station, an airport, a public parking or mooring place for cars or 
boats, a public place for loading and discharging goods or in a public conveyance;
www.thailawonline.com
(10) Upon a thing used or possessed for public benefit;
(11) Upon a thing belonging to or in possession of the employer;
(12) Upon a thing belonging to an agriculturist, which is a product, plant, animal or implement possessed 
for the purpose of carrying on agricultural pursuit or acquired from such agricultural pursuit,
Shall be punished with imprisonment of one to five years and fined of two thousand to ten thousand Baht.
If the offence committed according to the first paragraph comes under the circumstances provided in the 
above-mentioned sub-sections from two sub-sections upwards also, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of one to seven years and fined of two thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.
If the offence according to the first paragraph be committed against the ox, buffalo, mechanical device or 
machinery of the agriculturist to possess for purpose of carrying on agricultural pursuit, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment of three to ten years and fined of six thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If the offence mentioned in this Section be committed against the will or on account of unbearable poverty, 
and the property stolen is of little value, the Court may inflict the punishment on the offender as provided in

Section 565. Original section/article: 11. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.
The provision of the fourth paragraph of

Section 566. Original section/article: 3. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal 
Code (No. 7), B.E. 2530.

Section 567. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits theft by taking away the Buddhist Statue, religious object, or any part 
thereof, which is possessed for the public to worship or kept for being the property of Nation, shall be 
punished with imprisonment of three to ten years and fined of six thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If the commission of offence according to the first paragraph be committed in the temple, dwelling place of 
the monks, religious worship place, ancient place of the State, official place or National museum, the offender 
shall be punished with imprisonment of five to fifteen years and fined of ten thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 568. Original section/article: 12. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 569. Original section/article: 336. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits theft by snatching in presence is said to commit snatching, and shall be 
punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years and fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht.
If the snatching causes bodily or mental harm to another person, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of two to seven years and fined of four thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.
If the snatching causes grievous bodily harm to another person, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of three to ten years and fined of six thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If the snatching causes death to another person, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to 
fifteen years and fined of ten thousand to thirty thousand Baht.

Section 570. Original section/article: 336 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing the offence under

Section 571. Original section/article: 336. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
by wearing the soldier or police uniform or dressing so as to cause the other person to believe that 
oneself to be the soldier or police, or by carrying or using the gun or explosive, or using the conveyance so as 
to facilitate in committing the offence, to take away such thing or escape from the arrest, shall be punished 
more than that as prescribed in such Section by half.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 572. Original section/article: 13. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.
CHAPTER 2
OFFENCE OF EXTORTION, BLACKMAIL, ROBBERY AND GANG-ROBBERY

Section 573. Original section/article: 337. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, compels a person to give or to agree to give him or the other person a benefit in the 
nature of being a property by committing an act of violence or by a threat to commit violence against the life, 
body, liberty, reputation or property of the compelled person or a third person, so that the compelled person 
submits to the same is said to commit extortion, and shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five 
years and fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht.
If extortion be committed:
(1) By threatening to cause death or grievous bodily harm to the compelled person or the other person or to 
set fire to the property of the compelled person or other person; or
(2) By a person carrying an arm, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to seven 
years and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 574. Original section/article: 338. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, compelling the other person to give or to agree to give oneself or the other person the 
benefit in the nature to be the property by threatening to disclose the secret, to cause injury to the compelled 
person or the third person, up to the compelled person submit to the same, such person to be said to commit 
blackmail, and shall be imprisoned as from one year to ten years and fined as from two thousand Baht to 
twenty thousand Baht.

Section 575. Original section/article: 339. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits theft by doing any act of violence or threatening to do any act of violence 
immediately in order:
(1) To facilitate the theft or taking away of the thing;
(2) To obtain delivery of the thing;
(3) To take hole of the thing;
(4) To conceal the commission of such offence; or
(5) To escape from arrest, is said to commit robbery, and shall be punished with imprisonment of five to 
ten years and fined of ten thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If such offence is committed under the circumstances as provided in any subsection of

Section 576. Original section/article: 335. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or being 
to commit against the ox, buffalo, mechanical device or machinery of the agriculturist to possess for purpose 
of carrying on agricultural pursuit, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to fifteen years and 
fined of twenty thousand to thirty thousand Baht.
If the robbery causes bodily or mental harm to the other person, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of ten to twenty years and fined of twenty thousand to forty thousand Baht.
If the robbery causes grievous bodily harm to the other person, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years and fined of thirty thousand to forty thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com
If the robbery causes death to the other person, the offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for 
life.

Section 577. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.
The provision of the second paragraph\ of

Section 578. Original section/article: 13. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the 
Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 579. Original section/article: 339 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the robbery is committed against the thing according to the first paragraph of

Section 580. Original section/article: 335 
bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to fifteen years and fined of twenty thousand to 
thirty thousand Baht.
If such robbery is committed in the place as provided in the second paragraph of

Section 581. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
also, the 
offender shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to twenty years and fined of twenty thousand to forty 
thousand Baht.
If the robbery according to the first and second paragraph causes bodily or mental harm to the other person, 
the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years and fined of thirty thousand to forty 
thousand Baht.
If the robbery according to the first or the second paragraph causes grievous bodily harm to the other person, 
the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years.
If the robbery according to the first or second paragraph causes death to the other person, the offender shall 
be punished with death.

Section 582. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 5), B.E. 2525.

Section 583. Original section/article: 340. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever with three persons upwards participate in committing robbery, such persons are said to 
commit gang-robbery, and shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to fifteen years and fined of twenty 
thousand to thirty thousand Baht.
If in the commission of the gang-robbery, even one of the offenders carries arms, the offender shall be 
punished with imprisonment of twelve to twenty years and fined of twenty-four thousand to forty thousand 
Baht.
If the gang-robbery causes grievous bodily harm to the other person, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years.
If the gang-robbery is committed by acts of cruelty so as to cause bodily or mental harm to the other person, 
by shooting with a gun, by using explosive or by acts of torture, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years.
If the gang-robbery causes death to the other person, the offender shall be punished with death.

Section 584. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.

Section 585. Original section/article: 340 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the gang-robbery is committed against the things according to the first paragraph of

Section 586. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of ten to twenty years and find of twenty 
thousand to forty thousand Baht.
www.thailawonline.com
If such gang-robbery is committed in the place as provided in the second paragraph of

Section 587. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
also, 
the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years and fined of thirty thousand to forty 
thousand Baht.
If the gang-robbery according to the first or second paragraph, even one of the offender carries arms, the 
offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of fifteen to twenty years.
If the gang-robbery according to the first or second paragraph causes grievous bodily harm to the other 
person, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment for life.
If the gang-robbery according to the first or second paragraph is committed by acts of cruelty so as to cause 
bodily or mental harm to the other person, by shooting with a gun, by using explosive or by acts of torture, the 
offender shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life.
If the gang-robbery according to the first or second paragraph causes death to the other person, the offender 
shall be punished with death.

Section 588. Original section/article: 14. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 
2514.

Section 589. Original section/article: 340 ter. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, committing the offence under

Section 590. Original section/article: 340 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, by wearing the soldier or police uniform, by dressing so as to mistake for the soldier or police, or by 
carrying or using the gun or explosive, or by using the conveyance so as to commit the offence for taking 
such thing away or for excaping from the arrest, shall be punished to heavier punishment than that as 
prescribed by such Section by half.

Section 591. Original section/article: 15. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Decree (No. 11) of the National Executive Council in B.E. 2514.
CHAPTER 3
OFFENCE OF CHEATING AND FRAUD

Section 592. Original section/article: 341. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, dishonestly deceives a person with the assertion of a falsehood or the concealment of 
the facts which should be revealed, and, by such deception, obtains a property from the person so deceived 
or a third person, or causes the person so deceived or a third person to execute, revoke or destroy a 
document of right, is said to commit the offence of cheating and fraud, and shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 593. Original section/article: 342. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence of cheating and fraud be committed:
(1) By the offender showing himself to be another person; or
(2) By taking advantage of the lack of intelligence of the deceived person who is a child, or by taking 
advantage of weakness of mind of the deceived person,
The offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten 
thousand Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 594. Original section/article: 343. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence under

Section 595. Original section/article: 341. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
be committed by the assertion of a falsehood to the public or by 
the concealment of the facts which should be revealed to the public, the offender shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
If the offence mentioned in the first paragraph be committed under the circumstances mentioned in any sub-
section of

Section 596. Original section/article: 342. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
also, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six months to seven years 
and fined of one thousand to fourteen thousand Baht.

Section 597. Original section/article: 344. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, dishonestly, deceiving ten persons upwards to perform any work for oneself or for the 
third person with the intent not to pay the wages or remuneration to such persons, or with the intent to pay 
such persons lower wages or remuneration than those agreed upon, shall be imprisoned not out of three 
years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 598. Original section/article: 345. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, orders and consumes food or drink, or stays in a hotel, by knowing that the he cannot 
pay money for the food, drink or the stay in the hotel, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
three months or fined not exceeding five hundred Baht, or both.

Section 599. Original section/article: 346. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to take a property of another person for himself or a third person, induces any 
person to dispose of the property at a disadvantage on account of the induced person being weak-minded, 
or being a child lacking in intelligence and being unable to understand reasonably the essentials of his acts 
so that the induced person submits to the disposal of such property, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 600. Original section/article: 347. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, so as to oneself or the other person to obtain the benefit the insurance, maliciously 
causing the danger to the insured property, shall be imprisoned not out of five years or fined not out of to 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 601. Original section/article: 348. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter excepting the offence under

Section 602. Original section/article: 343. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
are compoundable 
offences.
CHAPTER 4
OFFENCE OF CHEATING AGAINST CREDITORS

Section 603. Original section/article: 349. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, taking away, damaging, destroying, causing depreciation of value, or rendering 
useless the property to have been pledged to another person, if being commission so as to cause injury to the 
pledged, shall be imprisoned not out of two years or fined not out of four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 604. Original section/article: 350. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in order to prevent his creditor or the creditor of the other person from receiving 
payment in whole or in part which has been or will be claimed through the Court, removes, conceals or 
transfers any property to another person, or maliciously contracts a debt for any sum which is not true, shall 
be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or fined not exceeding four thousand Baht, or both.

Section 605. Original section/article: 351. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter are compoundable offences.
CHAPTER 5
www.thailawonline.com
OFFENCE OF MISAPPROPRIATION

Section 606. Original section/article: 352. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being in possession of a property belonging to the other person, or of which the other 
person is a co-owner, dishonestly converts such property to himself or a third person, is said to commit 
misappropriation, and shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding three years or fined not exceeding 
six thousand Baht, or both.
If such property comes under the possession of the offender on account of being delivered to him by the 
other person by mistake by any means whatever, or being a lost property found by him, the offender shall be 
liable to one-half of the punishment.

Section 607. Original section/article: 353. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to be entrusted to manage the other person's property or property which the other 
person to be the co-owner, dishonestly to do any act contrary to oneself duty by any means whatever, up to 
cause the danger to the benefit on account of being the property of such other person, shall be imprisoned 
not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 608. Original section/article: 354. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence under

Section 609. Original section/article: 352. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
or 353 be committed by the offender in the status of being an 
executor or administrator of the property of the other person under the order of the Court or under a will, or in 
the status of being a person having an occupation or business of public trust, the offender shall be punished 
with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 610. Original section/article: 355. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to have found the valuable movable property to be hidden or buried under the 
circumstances of which no person claim to be the owner, to have converted such property for oneself or the 
other person, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 611. Original section/article: 356. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter are compoundable offences.
CHAPTER 6
OFFENCE OF RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY

Section 612. Original section/article: 357. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, assists in concealing, disposing of, making away with, purchases, receives in pledge 
or otherwise any property obtained through the commission of an offence, and such offence being theft, 
snatching, extortion, blackmail, robbery, gang-robbery, cheating and fraud, misappropriation or 
misappropriation by an official, is said to receive stolen property, and shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding five years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.
•
If the offence of receiving stolen property be committed for profit or against the property obtained by theft 
under

Section 613. Original section/article: 335. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
(10), robbery or gang-robbery, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of six 
months to ten years and fined of one thousand to twenty thousand Baht.
If such offence of receiving stolen property is committed against the property obtained by theft according to

Section 614. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, by the robbery according to

Section 615. Original section/article: 339 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, or by the gang-robbery according to Section 
www.thailawonline.com
340 bis, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment of five to fifteen years and fined of ten thousand to 
thirty thousand Baht.
The provision of the third paragraph of

Section 616. Original section/article: 6. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal 
Code (No. 2), B.E. 2512.
CHAPTER 7
OFFENCE OF MISCHIEF

Section 617. Original section/article: 358. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, causing the depreciation of value or rendering useless the 
property belonging to the other person or which the other person to be the co-owner, such person to be said 
to commit mischief, and shall be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 618. Original section/article: 359. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence under

Section 619. Original section/article: 358. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
be committed against:
(1) An engine or a machinery used for agricultural or industrial pursuits;
(2) A cattle;
(3) A conveyance or a beast of burden used for public transportation or for agricultural or industrial 
pursuits; or
(4) A plant or produce of an agriculturist, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five 
years or fined not exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 620. Original section/article: 360. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damaging, destroying, causing the depreciation of value or rendering useless the 
property used or possessed for public benefit, shall be imprisoned not out of five yours or fined not out of ten 
thousand Baht, or both.

Section 621. Original section/article: 360 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, damages, destroys, causes depreciation in value or renders useless the properties 
according to the first paragraph of

Section 622. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, which are standed in the places according to the second 
paragraph of

Section 623. Original section/article: 335 bis. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten years or fined not 
exceeding twenty thousand Baht, or both.

Section 624. Original section/article: 7. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 2), B.E. 2512.

Section 625. Original section/article: 361. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences under Sections 358 and 359 are compoundable offences.
CHAPTER 8
OFFENCE OF TRESPASS

Section 626. Original section/article: 362. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, entering into the immovable property belonging to the other person so as to take 
possession of such property in whole or in any part or entering into such property to do any act disturbing the 
peaceful possession of such person, shall be imprisoned not out of one year or fined not out of two thousand 
Baht, or both.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 627. Original section/article: 363. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, so as to take hold of the immovable property belonging to the other person for oneself 
or the third person, removing or destroying the boundary mark or such property in whole or in any party, shall 
be imprisoned not out of three years or fined not out of six thousand Baht, or both.

Section 628. Original section/article: 364. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, without reasonable cause, enters or hides himself in a dwelling place, store-house or 
office under the possession of the other person, or refuses to leave such place after having been told to do so 
by the person having the right to forbid him from entering, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
one year or fined not exceeding two thousand Baht, or both.

Section 629. Original section/article: 365. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
If the offence under

Section 630. Original section/article: 362. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, 363 or 364 be committed:
(1) By an act of violence or threat to commit an act of violence;
(2) By a person carrying arms or by two persons upwards participating; or
(3) By night, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding five years or fined not 
exceeding ten thousand Baht, or both.

Section 631. Original section/article: 366. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
The offences in this Chapter, excepting the offence under

Section 632. Original section/article: 365. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
, are compoundable 
offences.
BOOK III PETTY OFFENCES

Section 633. Original section/article: 367. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to have been required by the official to give oneself s name or address for the 
execution of the law, to refuse to give or give the name or address which to be false, shall be punished by fine 
not out of one hundred Baht.

Section 634. Original section/article: 368. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being informed of an order of an official given according to the power invested by law, 
refuses to comply with the same without any reasonable cause or excuse, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding ten days or fined not exceeding five hundred Baht, or both.
If such order is an order authorised by law requiring a person to assist in carrying on the activities in the 
function of an official, the offender shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not 
exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 635. Original section/article: 369. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to act by any means causing the notification, poster or document posted up or 
exhibited by the official in the excise of oneself's duty or by oneself's order, to be pulled down, or rendered 
useless, shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.

Section 636. Original section/article: 370. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, creates a noise, causes a noise or disturbance without a reasonable cause so as to 
frighten or trouble the public, shall be punished with fined not exceeding one hundred Baht.

Section 637. Original section/article: 371. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, carries arms in a town, village or public way openly or without a reasonable cause, or 
carries arms in a gathering assembled for worship, entertainment or any other purpose, shall be punished 
with fined not exceeding one hundred Baht, and the Court, shall have the power to forfeit such arms.

Section 638. Original section/article: 372. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, quarreling in the public way or place, or causing by any other means to disturb in the 
public way or place, shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 639. Original section/article: 373. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having the duty to control and to take care of an insane person, allows such insane 
person to wander about alone, shall be punished with fined not exceeding five hundred Baht.

Section 640. Original section/article: 374. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, to see the other person to be in the danger of life, which oneself may help so without 
the danger to oneself or the other person, but oneself does not assist, shall be imprisoned not out of one 
month or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 641. Original section/article: 375. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, obstructing or causing the inconvenience to the public drain, watercourse or sewer, 
shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.

Section 642. Original section/article: 376. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, unnecessarily fires a gun in a town, village or an other place where there is 
conglomeration of people, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding ten days or fined not 
exceeding five hundred Baht, or both.

Section 643. Original section/article: 377. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having in his care a ferocious or vicious animal, allows it to wander about alone in a 
manner likely to cause injury to a person or things, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one 
month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 644. Original section/article: 378. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, drinking the spirituous liquor or the other intoxicant up to be drunk, and behaving in 
the riotous manner, or to be unable to control oneself in any public road or place, shall be fined not out of five 
hundred Baht.

Section 645. Original section/article: 379. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in the course of a fight, draws or shows up arms, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding ten days or fined not exceeding five hundred Baht, or both.

Section 646. Original section/article: 380. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, causing the water in the well, pond or reservoir provided for public using to be filthy, 
shall be imprisoned not out of one month or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 647. Original section/article: 381. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, cruelly ill-treats or kills an animal with unnecessary sufferings, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 648. Original section/article: 382. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, overworking the animal unreasonably or using it to do the unsuitable work on account 
of it to be iii, old or young, shall be imprisoned not out of one month or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 649. Original section/article: 383. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, being called by an official to render assistance in case of fire or other public calamity, 
fails to comply with such call when he is able to do so, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 
one moth or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 650. Original section/article: 384. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, alarms the public by maliciously circulating false reports, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 651. Original section/article: 385. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, without the lawful permission, unnecessarily obstructing the public way by placing or 
leaving thereon any thing or by acting by any means up to it may interfere with the safety or convenience of 
traffic, shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.

Section 652. Original section/article: 386. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, digging the hole or groove, or erecting or placing the cumbrous thing along the public 
way without the lawful permission, or doing so lawfully but neglecting to show the proper signal to prevent the 
accident, shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.
www.thailawonline.com

Section 653. Original section/article: 387. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, hangs, installs or places any thing in a manner likely to fall or tumble down and cause 
injury, dirtiness or trouble to a passer-by in a public way, shall be punished with fined not exceeding five 
hundred Baht.

Section 654. Original section/article: 388. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, doing any shameful act in public by indecently exposing oneself's person, or by 
committing the other indecent act, shall be fined not out of five hundred Baht.

Section 655. Original section/article: 389. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, by any means whatever, causes a hard substance to fall on any place in a manner 
likely to cause harm, trouble or nuisance to a person or to cause danger a thing, or by any means whatever, 
causes a filthy thing to dirty or likely to dirty a person or thing, or maliciously causes a filthy thing to be a 
trouble or nuisance, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding 
one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 656. Original section/article: 390. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, causing bodily or mental harm to the other person by negligence, shall be imprisoned 
not out of one month or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 657. Original section/article: 391. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, commits an act of violence not amounting to bodily or mental harm to the other person, 
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or 
both.

Section 658. Original section/article: 392. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, puts a person in fear or in fright by threat, shall be punished with imprisonment not 
exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 659. Original section/article: 393. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, insulting the other person in his presence or by publication, shall be imprisoned not 
out of one month or fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 660. Original section/article: 9. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Order (No. 41) of the National Administrative Reform Council in B.E. 
2519.

Section 661. Original section/article: 394. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, chases, drives away or allows any animal to enter a garden, field or farm of the other 
person, which is prepared, sown or covered with crop, or which contains a produce, shall be punished with 
imprisonment not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 662. Original section/article: 395. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, having in his care any animal, allows it to enter a garden, field or farm of the other 
person, which is prepared, sown or covered with crop, or which contains a produce, shall be punished with 
fined not exceeding five hundred Baht.

Section 663. Original section/article: 396. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, leaving the carcass able to be bad to smell on or near the public way, shall be fined 
not out of five hundred Baht.

Section 664. Original section/article: 397. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, in a public place or before the public, does, by any means whatever to annoy or bully 
the other person, or causes the other person to be ashamed or troubled, shall be punished with imprisonment 
not exceeding one month or fined not exceeding one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 665. Original section/article: 398. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
Whoever, doing by any means to torment the child not yet over fifteen years of age, sick person 
or aged person being to depend such person in subsistence or anything else, shall be imprisoned not out of 
one month of fined not out of one thousand Baht, or both.

Section 666. Original section/article: 8. Source: Thailand Criminal/Penal Code B.E. 2499 (1956).
of the Act Amending the Criminal Code (No. 8), B.E. 2530.
www.thailawonline.com
