Thailand source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008)
Category: Consumer protection
Source URL: https://www.thailawforum.com/laws/Liability%20for%20Damages%20Arising%20from%20Unsafe%20Products%20Act.pdf
Note: English reference translation.

Section 1. Original section/article: 29. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
and 43 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand and the 
authority vested in the provisions of law. 
His Majesty the King has provided this Act based on the recommendation and acceptance of 
the National Legislative Council as follows:

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: This Act is hereby called “Liability for Damage Arising from Unsafe Products 
B.E. 2551.”

Section 3. Original section/article: 2. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: This Act shall be effective beginning one year after its publication in the 
Government Gazette.

Section 4. Original section/article: 3. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: In the event a law for liability for damage sustained from unsafe products is in 
existence which provides greater protection to the damaged party than stipulated in this Act, 
that law shall be enforceable.

Section 5. Original section/article: 4. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: In this Act, 
“Product” means all assets produced or imported for sale, including agricultural products and 
electricity. The exception being products prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations. 
www.thailawforum.com
1
Thailand Law Forum
“Agricultural products” means products arising from agricultural activities, such as farming, 
animal husbandry, aquatic livestock, silkworm cultivation, lac cultivation, and mushroom 
cultivation, but shall not include products arising through natural processes. 
“Produce” means making, combining, adding, creating, assembling, inventing, converting, 
altering, modifying, screening, packaging, freezing, exposing to radiation, or any other 
similar act. 
“Damaged party” means person sustaining damage arising from an unsafe product. 
“Damage” means damage arising from an unsafe product, regardless of whether the damage 
is to life, body, health, hygiene, mental state, or assets. This shall not include damage to the 
unsafe product. 
“Damage to mental state” means pain, suffering, fear, anxiety, sorrow, shame or other similar 
mental damage. 
“Unsafe product” means products that cause or may cause damage, regardless of whether it 
was caused by negligence during the production process or the design process. No guidelines 
being given for storage, or warning, or information related to the product, or guidelines being 
given but in an incorrect manner or vaguely so as to be improper when considering the 
condition of the product, including the normal method of use and storage for the product. 
“Sell” means distributing, disposing, or exchanging for commercial benefit and includes 
leasing, lease purchasing, procuring, soliciting, and exhibiting as stated. 
“Import” means bringing or ordering goods into the Kingdom for sale. 
“Entrepreneur” means 
1. Producer or a party authorizing the production. 
2. Importer 
3. Seller of product who cannot identify his producer, party authorizing the production, 
or importer. 
4. Party using a name, trade name, trademark, mark, message or other means which may 
be understood as being the producer, party authorizing the production, or importer. 
www.thailawforum.com
2
Thailand Law Forum

Section 6. Original section/article: 5. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: All entrepreneurs shall be jointly liable for damages occurring to the damaged 
party from an unsafe product sold to the consumer. This shall apply to intentional damages or 
damages arising from the negligence of the entrepreneurs.

Section 7. Original section/article: 6. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: For the entrepreneurs to be liable according to

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
, the damaged party or his 
prosecuting representative, based on

Section 9. Original section/article: 10. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
, shall prove that the damaged party sustained 
damages from the product of the entrepreneurs, and the use or storage of the product was 
done in a normal manner. However, evidence shall not be required to the effect that the 
damages occurred from the Action of a particular entrepreneur.

Section 10. Original section/article: 7. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The entrepreneurs shall not be liable for damages arising from an unsafe product if 
it can be determined that 
1. The product was not unsafe. 
2. The damaged party had knowledge that the product was unsafe, or 
3. The damages occurred from inappropriate use or storage of the product determined by 
the instructions for appropriate use and storage, warning, or product information 
accurately and clearly provided by the entrepreneurs.

Section 11. Original section/article: 8. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The party producing products by order of the party authorizing the production shall 
not be liable if evidence can be provided that the danger was caused by the design of the 
party authorizing the production or compliance to the instructions provided by the party 
authorizing the production, whereas the producing party had not expected such danger. 
The producer of the product components shall not be liable if it can be proved that the danger 
of the products was caused by the design, assembly, instructions for usage and storage, and 
warning or product information by the party producing the product.

Section 12. Original section/article: 9. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: Agreements entered into between the consumer and the entrepreneurs before the 
damages and the statement of the entrepreneur to disclaim or place limits on his liability for 
damages caused by the unsafe product cannot be asserted as a disclaimer or limit the 
entrepreneur’s liability.

Section 13. Original section/article: 10. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The Consumer Protection Committee, associations and foundations certified by 
the Consumer Protection Committee under consumer laws shall be authorized to file legal 
proceedings for compensation in place of the damaged party under the stipulations related to 
www.thailawforum.com
3
Thailand Law Forum
filing of legal proceedings and prosecuting representation for legal proceedings, which shall 
be enforced with exceptions. 
All fees shall be exempted for filing of legal proceedings in place of the damaged party under 
Paragraph One, with the exclusion of the final fee.

Section 14. Original section/article: 11. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The court shall be authorized to demand compensation for damages based on the 
following, in addition to compensation for violations of the Civil and Commercial Code: 
1. Compensation for damage to mental health, as well as body, health, and hygiene of 
the damaged party. In the event the damaged party has died, the damage party’s 
husband, wife, children, or descendants shall have rights to compensation for the 
damage occurring to mental health. 
2. In the event the facts indicate that the entrepreneurs produced, imported, or sold the 
products, although aware that the products were unsafe, or that the entrepreneur was 
unaware, but committed gross negligence, or had awareness that the product was 
unsafe after production, yet imported or sold the unsafe product without taking 
appropriate action to prevent damages from occurring, the court shall be authorized to 
order the entrepreneur to pay punitive damages in addition to the amount of actual 
compensation stipulated by the court, which shall be based on the discretion of the 
court, but not to exceed twice the actual compensation. Consideration will be given to 
the following circumstances including the severity of the damage sustained by the 
damaged party, the entrepreneur’s cognizance of the damages arising from the 
product, the time period in which the entrepreneur concealed the danger of the 
product, the actions taken by the entrepreneur after becoming aware that the product 
was unsafe, the benefits received by the entrepreneur, the financial status of the 
entrepreneur, efforts to alleviate the damages that occurred on the part of the 
entrepreneur, and the part the damaged party had in the damages that occurred.

Section 15. Original section/article: 12. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The right to demand compensation arising from unsafe products according to this 
Act will expire after 3 years counting from the date the damaged party became aware of the 
damages and became aware of the entrepreneurs responsible, or after 10 years counting from 
the date the product was sold 
www.thailawforum.com
4
Thailand Law Forum
In the event the damages were to life, body, health, or hygiene by the accumulation of 
chemicals in the body of the damaged party, or in the event a period of time must pass before 
any symptoms appear, the damaged party or his prosecuting representative, according to

Section 16. Original section/article: 10. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
, must demand his rights 3 years counting from the date that he became aware of 
the damages and the entrepreneurs responsible, but not to exceed 10 years counting from the 
date he became aware of the damages.

Section 17. Original section/article: 13. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: In the event of negotiation for compensation between the entrepreneur and the 
damaged party or his prosecuting representative, according to

Section 18. Original section/article: 10. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
, the prescription 
period ceases during the period of negotiation until either party terminates the negotiation.

Section 19. Original section/article: 14. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The stipulations to the Act shall not deprive the damaged party of his rights to 
demand compensation based on rights under other laws.

Section 20. Original section/article: 15. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: Products sold to the consumer before this Act’s enforcement shall not be 
governed under this Act.

Section 21. Original section/article: 16. Source: Liability for Damages Arising from Unsafe Products Act B.E. 2551 (2008).
: The Prime Minister shall abide by this Act and shall be authorized to prescribe 
Ministerial Regulations for compliance with this Act. 
The Ministerial Regulations as stated shall be enforceable after its publication in the 
Government Gazette. 
Countersigner 
General Surayud Julanond 
Prime Ministe 
www.thailawforum.com
5
Thailand Law Forum
