Thailand source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001)
Category: Digital services
Source URL: https://www.bot.or.th/content/dam/bot/fipcs/documents/FPG/2551/EngPDF/25510316.pdf
Note: English unofficial translation hosted by Bank of Thailand.

Section 1. Original section/article: 36. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
of the Financial Institution Business Act B.E. 2551 
(2008), the B ank of Thailand hereby prescribes regulations for the provision of e -banking 
services as stipulated under this Notification. 
3. Scope of application 
This Notification shall apply to all commercial banks according to the law 
on financial institution business. 
4. Repealed/Amended Notification and Circulars: See Attachment 1 
5. Contents 
5.1 Forms of e-banking transaction 
When new technologies are utilized in the provision of banking services, 
commercial bank shall seek approval in principle from the Bank of Thailand prior to the 
introduction of such service. The extent of new technologies is inclusive of a totally new 
technology and further development of existing technology to enhance delivery capabilities 
of banking services. Presently, the forms of e -banking transaction permitted by the Bank 
of Thailand include: 
5.1.1 For service provision of an electronic branch, establishment 
and service regulations shall adhere to the Notification of the Bank of Thailand Re: Regulations 
for Operations of Commercial Bank Branch. 
5.1.2 To accommodate transactional requirements of internet-based 
services offered by commercial bank, the Bank of Thailand hereby prescribes regulations 
for such provision in Attachment 2. However, the commercial bank shall seek approval from 
the Bank of Thailand in advance. It is noted that commercial banks that have obtained 
the permission from the Bank of Thailand may continue to operate in accordance with 
such operating license. 
5.1.3 Currently, there is an advent of e-banking services which allows 
customers to use electronic money to purchase goods and services. The Bank of Thailand 
has recognized the merits of electronic money business, such as technological development, 
enhanced efficiency and convenience of banking services for general public, and so forth. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
Thus, the Bank of Thailand prescribes supervisory regulations for e-banking services that 
may be adopted by banks as guidelines for development of e -banking services which 
conform to stable development of the banking system, financia l institution system, and 
payment system as described in Attachment 3. Accordingly, the commercial bank shall 
seek approval from the Bank of Thailand in advance. It is noted that commercial banks 
that have obtained the permission from the Bank of Thailand may continue to operate in 
accordance with such operating license. 
5.2 Electronic fund transfer service 
Commercial banks have offered electronic fund transfer service to 
general customers. With greater convenience and service speed, this service has grow n in 
popularity among general public. However, inherent risks associated with the application 
of new electronic devices and technology in the service delivery may result in damages 
which often induce problems and disputes between banks, concerned parties, and general 
customers. Partly, such problem stems from the fact that customers may lack documentary 
evidence to attest actual transactions and may not be aware of correct procedures and 
cautions. In addition, presently there are no provisions, methods, or laws to protect and 
avert potential losses from electronic fund transfer transaction. 
Therefore, it deems advisable to prescribe regulations for electronic 
fund transfer that may be adopted by commercial banks in their guidelines and practices. 
Consequently, all concerned parties will be treated fairly and public confidence will grow. 
Both elements form a solid foundation for and constitute a key factor in further development 
of an efficient and advanced payment system as stated in Attachment 4. 
5.3 Security control 
5.3.1 The provision of banking services via electronic media poses a 
major risk, that is, security risk of data, system, and service network. Thus, banks require 
an effective security policy and procedures in order to protect the service system from 
threats, unauthorized access, and thefts of bank and customer data which could result in 
financial and reputational losses which may lead to loss of confidence in banking services 
as a whole. 
It deems advisable that commercial banks have practical guidelines 
for establishment of security control policy and procedures for the provision of e -banking 
services, thus ensuring that service delivery is secure and reliable and customer’s interest 
will be protected. Therefore, it deems advisable to prescribe g uidelines for commercial 
bank’s security control practices of e-banking services as stated in Attachment 5. 
5.3.2 The development of IT contingency plan is required so that 
banks can use this as a guideline for policy formulation and efficient planning pr ocess of 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
IT contingency plan. The objective is to prepare contingency responses for various scenarios 
and mitigate any potential impact as well as normalize the bank’s IT system within a 
suitable period of time as stated in Attachment 6. Consequently, the bank can maintain 
business continuity or minimize adverse impacts after the services were disrupted by an 
incident, thus boosting confidence among customers and stakeholders in its service provision. 
Nevertheless, such contingency plan is considered only a part of 
the practical guidelines of business continuity management (BCM) and development of 
business continuity plan (BCP) which constitutes an operational plan that maintains uninterrupted 
business operations or normalizes business operations after an emergency situation. 
Besides, it is required that commercial bank operates a backup 
computer system outside the premise where the main computer center is located. Moreover, 
the backup system should be located quite far from the main computer center. The suspension 
of service provision to depositors and customers caused by computer system’s failure or 
damage may not exceed one business day. 
5.4 Internal control 
To persuade commercial banks using computers to process data in 
various systems to recognize how critical data storage in ever-changing data recording media 
is, it deems advisable to prescribe minimum data standards of work systems as stated in 
Attachment 7 which banks may use as guidelines when considering a recording format. However, 
such data must conform to minimum data standards as prescribed by the Bank of Thailand. 
5.5 Other business conducts 
Since commercial banks leverage IT outsourcing to a greater extent in 
order to reduce cost, enhance operational capabilities, and upgrade services to keep pace 
with rapid technological development, the Bank of Thailand urges banks to adhere to the 
Notification of the Bank of Thailand Re: Regulations on IT Outsourcing for Business Operations 
of Financial Institutions. Hence, banks can utilize IT services rendered by other vendors in 
an efficient and reliable manner to safeguard the interest of customers. 
5.6 Forms of banking fraud and prevention 
To keep customers abreast of various incidents, enhance security in 
service delivery, mitigate impacts and damages on bank’s businesses as well as to maintain 
customers’ confidence in e -banking services, it is worth learning about various forms of 
banking fraud. 
5.6.1 Using a scanning device (skimmer) to copy information in magnetic 
strip of customer’s ATM card and create a fake card. Banks ought to recognize fraud issues, 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
be wary of service delivery, and implement fraud prevention measures, thus ensuring that 
customers can use ATM services securely as stated in Attachment 8. 
5.6.2 Regarding internet fraud via phishing, banks that offer internet-based 
banking services should be wary of service delivery, implement preventive measures, and 
warn customers about potential frauds as stated in Attachment 9. 
5.7 E-banking laws 
There are other regulations regarding risk management of e -banking 
services that commercial banks should further explore to implement risk management 
enhance security of e-banking services, and ensure that their operations meet international 
standards, for example, Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001) (See Attachment 10) 
and the Bank for International Settlement (BIS) by Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
which prepared and distributed the Risk Management Principles for E-banking (See Attachment 11). 
6. Effective date 
This Notification shall come into force as from the day following the dates 
of its publication in the Government Gazette. 
Announced on the 3rd August 2008 
(Mrs. Tarisa Watanagase) 
Governor 
Bank of Thailand 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-1/1- 
Attachment 1 
Repealed/Amended Notification and Circulars 
Item Date of 
Notification/ 
Circular 
Type No. Subject 
1 28 May 1985 Circular BOT. Nor.Wor. 
(C.) 678/2528 
Service Provision of Commercial 
Bank Using New Technologies 
2 23 June 1988 Circular BOT. Nor.Sor. 
(C.) 969/2531 
Establishment of Contingency 
Plan and Backup Computer 
System 
3 13 September 
1991 
Circular BOT. Nor.Khor. 
(C.) 1492/2534 
Prescription of Minimum Data 
Standards for Commercial Bank’s 
Operating Systems Using 
Computer Data Processing 
4 5 July 1994 Circular BOT. Ngor.Kor. 
(C.) 1230/2537 
Guidelines for Electronic Fund 
Transfer 
5 9 November 
2000 
Notifica-
tion 
Utilization of Internet Network in 
Commercial Bank’s Business 
Operations (Circular No. BOT. 
FPG. (01) C. 3097/2534 Lor.Wor. 
15 Nov’00) 
6 5 March 2005 Circular BOT. FPG. (11) 
C. 525/2545 
Submission of the Electronic 
Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001) 
7 8 March 2002 Circular BOT. FPG. 
(11) C. 
559/2545 
Submission of Risk Management 
Principles for Electronic Banking, 
written by the Bank for 
International Settlement (BIS) 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-1/2- 
Item Date of 
Notification/ 
Circular 
Type No. Subject 
8 19 November 
2003 
Circular BOT. (C.) 
2484/2546 
Guidelines for Security Control of 
E-banking Services 
9 10 February 
2004 
Circular BOT. 
Nor.Kor. (C.) 
378/2547 
Policy Guidelines for the 
Supervision of E-banking services 
10 26 February 
2004 
Circular BOT. 
Ngor.Kor. 
(C.) 
471/2547 
Guidelines for Prevention of 
Banking Frauds by Using Skimmer 
to Copy Data in Magnetic Strip of 
Customer’s ATM Card to Make a 
Fake Card 
11 12 April 2005 Circular FSD. (11) C. 
695/2548 
Guidelines for the Prevention of 
Internet Fraud via Phishing 
12 12 October 
2005 
Circular BOT. FPG. 
(11) C. 
1953/2548 
Guidelines for Development of IT 
Contingency Plan 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-2/1- 
Attachment 2 
Using Internet-based Services in Banking Businesses 
_______________________________________________________________ 
The Bank of Thailand hereby stipulates guidelines concerning permission 
for commercial banks to utilize internet-based services in banking businesses as follows: 
1. Using internet-based services to disseminate information about banking 
businesses in a manner similar to advertising or about various services such as loan 
request procedures, loan application form, documentary evi dences, and interest rates. 
These activities may be conducted to serve general customers or specifically cater to an 
individual customer. Commercial banks can perform such deeds without having to obtain 
prior approval from the Bank of Thailand. 
2. Utilization of internet -based services in banking business and related 
businesses or any conducts indispensable for banking operations shall require prior 
approval from the Bank of Thailand. 
Commercial banks that have been permitted by the Bank of Thailand 
to utilize internet-based services in banking businesses could use internet -based services 
for approved transactions. 
3. To obtain permission, commercial bank shall submit an application as 
prescribed by the Bank of Thailand (Appendix 1 – Attachment to Annex 2) together with 
the followings: 
3.1 Operational plan for internet -based transactions: At least such 
plan should contain information on system and data security measures, risk assessment 
and contingency plan, development of system technologies and security facilities, staff 
training and development, internal control system, solutions for potential legal issues 
that appreciate the right and interest of customers. 
Accordingly, the bank shall be prepared to elaborate or provide 
additional explanation and comply with the Bank of Thailand’s directives. 
3.2 Provide documentary evidences for each transaction executed by 
customer that can be used as a legal evidence and retain copies of required documents 
for inspection by the Bank of Thailand. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-2/2- 
4. After a p eriod of 60 days following the filing of the application and 
support information stated in Item 3, if the Bank of Thailand has no objection or requests 
for additional written explanation, the permission shall be deemed effective and the 
bank shall be officially permitted after receiving a notice from the Bank of Thailand. 
5. After the permission in Item 4 is obtained, the bank shall be able to 
provide internet-based services in banking businesses under the following scopes: 
5.1 The bank can use internet -based services for additional 
transactions which are an extension of approved transactions without having to re -apply 
for approval of internet -based services. However, it is required that the bank modify the 
operational plan in support of such transactions. 
5.2 The bank may display trademarks/logos or messages pertaining to 
other businesses on its website to accommodate the needs of end users who can learn 
about other businesses of which financial transactions can be made through the bank or 
to open up a channel for access to other businesses in the website by end users, with an 
exception of home page, the main website’s screen, which displays only banking services. 
Nevertheless, the bank shall not be allowed to generate revenue 
from display of logos or me ssages of other businesses similar to advertisement of other 
businesses or perform any action which may be considered advertisement or solicitation 
to persuade end users to obtain any service in the website of other businesses associated 
with the bank. 
5.3 The bank shall not allow customers to follow steps to buy and 
sell products or services of other businesses on its website. 
6. Regarding imposition of service fees for internet -based services and 
other businesses on end users, the bank shall adhere to m arket mechanism to stimulate 
competition and consider impartiality for all customers. 
Where there are contractual terms imposed on the bank and 
customers or the bank and other businesses that oblige the bank to fulfill certain 
obligations, the bank shall perform such obligations. However, the bank has certain 
disclaimer, such disclaimer shall not constitute limited liability on fraud or gross 
negligence and violation of laws. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-2/3- 
Appendix 1 of Attachment 2 
Application for Utilization of Internet-based Services in Banking Businesses 
Written at ………………………………………….. 
Date …………………………………………………… 
Governor, Bank of Thailand 
Dear Sir/Madam: 
………………………………..desires to request for permission to use internet -based 
services in banking businesses in accordance wit h the internet -based transaction 
operational plan and documentary evidences used for the transactions listed below: 
(1) …………………………………………………. 
(2) …………………………………………………. 
(3) …………………………………………………. 
(4) …………………………………………………. 
(5) …………………………………………………. 
If the Bank of Thailand requests for additional support information or other 
details, I shall verbally present the required information and/or deliver additional details 
to the Bank of Thailand as requested. Aside from that, if the Bank of Thailand stipulates 
any condition before and after the granting of the permission, requiring that I perform or 
omit any act, I shall strictly abide by such condition. 
For your consideration and approval. 
Signature ……………………………. 
(…………………………….) 
Authorized person 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-2/4- 
List of docume ntary evidences attached to the Application for Utilization of 
Internet-based Services in Banking Businesses 
Required information that must be submitted along with the filing of an 
application includes at least the followings: 
1. Internet-based transaction operational plan 
1.1 System and data security measures 
(Please specify applicable technology) 
1.2 Risk assessment 
1.3 Contingency plan 
1.4 Development of system technologies and security facilities 
1.5 Staff training and development 
1.6 Internal control system 
1.7 Solutions for potential legal issues that appreciate the right and 
interest of customers 
2. Documentary evidences for internet-based transactions 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-3/1- 
Attachment 3 
Supervisory Guidelines for E-banking services 
_______________________________________________________________ 
Commercial banks intending to provide e-banking services shall request for 
permission from the Bank of Thailand in accordance with

Section 2. Original section/article: 36. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
of the Financial 
Institution Act B.E. 2551 (2008). In such approval, the Bank of Thailand shall consider 
potential impacts and risks on banking system, payment system and so forth as well as 
capabilities and credibility of participating vendors. In addition, the Bank of Thailand shall 
not impede technologi cal and business developments which might adversely affect the 
country’s competitiveness. 
Contents 
1. Features of electronic money 
Electronic money or so-called multipurpose stored value card, e-purse, 
e-wallet, or smart card has three main features as follows: 
1.1 Consumer pays money to an issuer of electronic money in 
advance (pre-paid). 
1.2 Pre-paid money is recorded in electronic media (stored value), 
such as plastic card or other computer media. 
1.3 Consumer can use electronic money to purchase p roducts and 
services from retail outlets as specified by an issuer of electronic money. 
2. Risks and impacts of electronic money 
Usage of electronic money in an economic system may pose inherent 
risks and impacts on banking system, financial institution system, and payment system. To 
cope with such risks and impacts, the Bank of Thailand may prescribe supervisory 
guidelines to control potential risks and impacts as follows: 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-3/2- 
2.1 Impacts on banking system 
Impacts 
Usage of electronic money as a substitute for currency issued by 
the government sector impacts on abilities to control inflation and maintain economic 
stability of the central bank in two ways, that is, 
(1) Money multiplier that may increase due to reduced 
necessity of bank notes used as a medium of payment. 
(2) Monetary volume that may increase due to of the inclusion 
of electronic money used as a medium of payment in the definition of monetary volume 
and due to the fact that service providers can use pre -paid money (float) to furthe r 
engage in other transactions. 
Supervisory approaches 
(1) Closely monitor and control electronic money volume in the system 
(2) Prescribe cash reserve to electronic money ratio (where necessary) 
2.2 Impacts on financial institution system and payment system 
2.2.1 Liquidity risk stemming from the fact that issuer of 
electronic money may not be able to repay the money because of unscrupulous fund 
use and inefficient financial management and so on. 
Impacts 
(1) Revenue and payment abilities of other con cerned 
parties, such as other participating financial institution or retail outlet 
(2) Loss of consumer’s money that has been paid to 
the issuer of electronic money in advance 
(3) Consumer confidence in the system 
Supervisory approaches 
(1) As a service provider, banks must have suitable risk 
management system. 
(2) The Bank of Thailand may prescribe requirements for 
float management, where necessary. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-3/3- 
2.2.2 Operational risks stemming from deficiency in the 
system’s security measures and frauds co mmitted by the service provider or participating 
vendors 
Impacts 
(1) Data accuracy and confidentiality 
(2) Uninterrupted services 
(3) Reliability of payment system and financial institution system 
Supervisory approaches 
(1) Banks shall adhere to the guidelines prescribed in this 
notification and the Notification of the Bank of Thailand Re: IT Outsourcing and so forth. 
(2) Encourage service providers to select only 
technologies that meet international standards. 
(3) Require banks to adhere to good go vernance 
principles. 
2.3 Other impacts 
2.3.1 Consumer protection 
Since electronic money services require consumers to pay 
cash in advance to exchange for electronic money, consumer protection is thus very 
important. In such service provision, key considerations include 
(1) Scope of responsibilities of issuer of electronic 
money, retail outlet, and consumer in case of losses incurred from fraud, mistake, lost 
card (where monetary value is recorded on the card) 
(2) Service fee 
(3) Refund terms 
Supervisory approaches 
(1) Banks offering e -banking services must adhere to 
good governance principles. 
(2) Educate and inform consumers and concerned 
parties about service provision and potential risks in explicit and transparent manners. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-3/4- 
2.3.2 Since some form of e -banking services may facilitate 
money laundering, for example, the system whereby one customer can transfer money 
to another customer by bypassing the system of service provider. 
Supervisory approaches 
(1) Prohibit direct money transfer without passing 
through the information system of service provider. 
(2) Service system must be able to trace back past 
transactions. 
(3) Set maximum amount of electronic money to be 
used. 
(4) Issued electronic money must be in Thai baht and 
used only in Thailand. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/1- 
Attachment 4 
Guidelines for Electronic Fund Transfer 
_______________________________________________________________ 
These guidelines for electronic fund transfer were developed to protect 
the interest and ensur e fairness of the service agreement executed between bank and 
customer. In addition, concerned parties and the bank’s service staff would recognize the 
obligations and take necessary actions within the scope of prescribed rights, duties, and 
responsibilities. Furthermore, commercial banks are obliged to modify relevant 
procedures and terms of the service agreement in accordance with the prescribed 
minimum standards. Accordingly, banks shall notify or announce to general customers to 
ensure that users are aw are of modified service procedures and terms. The guidelines 
and procedures are described below: 
1. Contents 
In these guidelines, 
1.1 “Electronic fund transfer” is referred to money transfer through 
terminals, electronic communication devices, computers, or recording media of computer 
data that orders bank to transfer money in or out of a bank account, for example, 
services through automated teller machine (ATM) and point of sale (POS) fund transfer as 
well as office banking services, internet banking, and tele-banking services. 
Money transfer will be completed only when a transferee or 
beneficiary receives cash or credited amount in the transferee’s bank account is equal to 
the transferred amount transmitted from transferor bank or the transferee bank already 
receives the transferred amount. In the end, the transferee can use that money. 
1.2 “Illegitimate electronic fund transfer” is referred to money transfer 
made by a third party without consent from a customer. In the end, the customer does 
not gain any benefit from such transfer. The cases other than the ones below are 
considered legitimate electronic fund transfer. 
1.2.1 The customer voluntarily gives fund transfer tool to other 
person. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/2- 
1.2.2 The customer commits an unscrupulous act alone or with 
other person. 
1.2.3 The transfer was caused by the bank’s failure and the bank 
later made a correction. 
1.2.4 Fund transfer transaction whereby evidence indicates that the 
transfer was facilitated by the customer’s “fund transfer tool” that was given to the 
customer by the bank. 
1.3 “Fund transfer with pre -authorization” is referred to electronic fund 
transfer pertaining to a contract executed beforehand for agreed transfer transaction, 
such as bank debit for utility payment and payment of goods and services. 
1.4 “Fund transfer tool” is referred to ATM card, debit or credit card, 
password, magnetic disk with embedded program or other tools given to a customer by 
the bank so that the customer can use it as a tool to transfer money in or out of ba nk 
account. 
1.5 “Customer” is referred to a customer that opened a bank deposit 
account and entered into a service agreement for electronic fund transfer or transfer 
transaction with the bank. 
1.6 “Fund transfer evidence” is referred to documentary evi dence such 
as transaction slip, transfer notice, bank statement, and other evidences which are 
generated by computer and data recording media such as magnetic tape, magnetic disk, 
or other data recording media used for storing information. 
Each type of fu nd transfer evidence shall contain transactional 
details of fund transfer in or out of customer’s bank account. 
2. Details 
2.1 Commercial banks shall prepare at least two duplicates of a written 
service agreement for electronic fund transfer entered with a customer. One copy of the 
agreement is given to the customer as evidence. Beside essential contents of the 
contract pertaining to the obligations of contractual parties, the bank shall specify or 
stipulate the following contents and instructions as follows: 
2.1.1 Title and description or type of service 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/3- 
2.1.2 Statement that underscores the importance and safekeeping 
of fund transfer tools and provides instructions to customer in case fund transfer tools 
are damaged, lost, or stolen or in case a ny fund transfer tool will be replaced upon its 
expiry date. 
2.1.3 Service terms that at least cover details like date and time of 
service availability, maximum number of daily transactions and maximum amount of daily 
transfer, and estimated timing for completion of fund transfer. 
2.1.4 Service fee or other expense (if any) imposed on customers 
2.1.5 The right of customer pertaining to receipt of documentary 
evidence whenever a transfer is made or service is obtained through all types of bank 
account, such as transaction slip, transfer notice, and bank statement which may be used 
as evidence of transfer transaction. 
2.1.6 Method and place where customer orders or notifies the 
bank to freeze or suspend fund transfer tool or fund transfer with pre -authorization and 
the period of time whereby the bank will fulfill the customer’s order or request. 
2.1.7 Commercial bank may be liable to customer as follows: 
(1) The bank performs or omits to perform fund transfer 
order, thereby causing failure in recei ving money from electronic fund transfer within 
stipulated time as stated in 2.1.3, unless 
(1.1) The customer has insufficient account balance. 
(1.2) The customer does not have a credit line or the 
credit line granted by the bank has been suspended. 
(1.3) Fund transfer renders account balance exceed 
the agreed credit line. 
(1.4) Legal proceeding is ongoing. 
(1.5) The bank informs the customer about fund 
transfer’s malfunction before or during the fund transfer's execution. 
(1.6) The customer breaches terms of the agreement. 
(1.7) Fortuitous event 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/4- 
(2) The bank does not pursue the order to freeze fund 
transfer with pre -authorization as stated in 2.1.6 or seize the customer’s fund transfer 
tool as stated in 2.6 and later electronic fund transfer occurs. 
(3) The bank does not provide a fund transfer tool to the 
customer and an illegitimate fund transfer occurs. 
(4) Illegitimate fund transfer occurs and the customer is not 
at fault. 
2.1.8 Liabilities of customer 
Where electronic fund transfer is transacted after fund 
transfer tool was lost or stolen, the customer shall be liable for the transferred amount 
that was executed before the bank completed the seizure or freezing of the fund transfer 
tool or fund transfer with pre -authorization within a stipulated time frame described in 
the agreement as stated in 2.1.6. 
2.1.9 In the event the customer discovers any transactional error in 
fund transfer and reports such error to the bank, the customer shall report the following 
information: 
(1) Date and time of transaction 
(2) Terminal location 
(3) Account number of the customer and the concerned party 
(4) Type of transaction 
(5) Amount of transferred money 
2.1.10 Guidelines and procedures for commercial bank’s investigation 
and rectification of such error 
2.1.11 Method for termination of service agreement for electronic 
fund transfer by contractual parties 
2.2 Commercial bank may provide fund transfer tool to a customer 
under the following conditions: 
2.2.1 Upon request by the customer 
2.2.2 As a replacement for fund transfer tool that is damaged, lost, 
or stolen or fund transfer tool needs to be replaced when it lapses. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/5- 
2.3 Commercial bank shall prepare a manual or document to clearly 
explain detailed steps or procedures of service provision to all customers. 
2.4 Commercial bank shall store evidential information in the following 
formats that can be recalled and easily understood. 
2.4.1 Magnetic tape 
2.4.2 Magnetic disk 
2.4.3 Other data recording media used for data storage 
2.4.4 Document or computer report printout 
2.4.5 Documentary evidence provided to customers by the bank as 
stated in 2.1.5 
2.5 Where commercial bank designates other party to execute or jointly 
execute electronic fund transfer or perform other duties associated with or to facilitate 
electronic fund transfer, the bank shall be held accountable for any action as if the 
service is rendered solely by the bank. In addition, such designated party shall be 
instructed to store required information in a format as stated in 2.4. 
2.6 Commercial bank shall promptly freeze or suspend fund transfer tool 
or fund transfer with pre -authorization and prepare an evidence of such notice after 
customer requests suspension of such tool. In this case, the customer sh all not be liable 
for any loss incurred after instructing the bank to freeze such fund transfer tool. 
2.7 Commercial bank shall promptly produce and provide the customer 
with transaction slip for each transaction after completing each step and the transa ction. 
In addition, this also include transaction whereby money is not paid to the customer or 
other reasons relating to failure or incompletion of fund transfer, except the case 
whereby the bank already informed the customer in advance or an incidence is 
considered a fortuitous event. A transaction slip should at least contain the following 
information: 
2.7.1 Terminal site code 
2.7.2 Transaction date and time 
2.7.3 Type of transaction 
2.7.4 Account numbers of transferor and transferee 
2.7.5 Transferred amount and outstanding balance 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/6- 
2.7.6 Code or text displayed to indicate whether transfer 
transaction fails or is uncompleted. 
2.8 Require commercial bank to prepare bank statement that shows all 
transactional details or account movements for each customer. Such details shall at least 
include the followings: 
2.8.1 Each transfer -in (credit) or transfer -out (debit) transaction; 
pertinent details include transaction date, type of transaction, and transferred amount 
2.8.2 Service fee or any expense imposed on customers by the bank 
2.8.3 Daily closing balance of the account and carried -over and 
carried- forward amount 
2.8.4 Location and telephone number of bank office or branch 
where customers can contact conveniently 
2.9 In case of fund transfer with pre-authorization, commercial bank shall 
deliver transfer notice that indicates debit amount to the customer within one month 
from the transfer date. The transfer notice shall include at the least the followings: 
2.9.1 Transfer date 
2.9.2 Transferor and transferee account numbers 
2.9.3 Transferred amount and account balance before and after 
each transfer 
2.9.4 Names of transferor and transferee 
2.10 Commercial bank shall investigate failure of fund transfer reported by 
customer as stated in 2.1. 9 and make suitable adjustment within 30 days from the 
notification date. If it was found that the bank was held liable for such failure and a 
reimbursement was called for, the bank shall transfer the reimbursed amount to the 
customer’s account. Accordingl y, interest payment will be calculated retrospectively 
from the transfer date when the amount was debited from the customer’s account. 
When pursuing such investigation and corrective action, the bank 
shall deal with the matter methodically in accordance wi th the provision in 2.1.10. The 
bank that jointly engaged in electronic fund transfer or was designated to do so shall be 
responsible for the investigation in order to gather pertinent evidences and facts 
concerning possible causes relating to or failure of its tool or equipment. The participating 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-4/7- 
bank shall report the findings to the customer’s bank within 15 days from the notification 
date of such failure by the customer or the bank, whichever case may happen first. 
2.11 Commercial bank shall inform the customer or account owner of the 
findings of such investigation as stated in 2.10 within seven days from the date the bank 
learns about the findings. 
2.12 Commercial bank shall ensure that the electronic fund transfer 
system be inspected by an external auditor at least once a year. 
2.13 Where commercial bank intends to amend any requirement or terms 
of the service agreement of electronic fund transfer, customers shall be informed of such 
revision at least 15 days in advance. Where such revision impo ses higher expense or 
additional obligations, evidence shall be provided to attest that customers give consent 
or do not object to such revision. 
2.14 Other provisions or terms in the service agreement for electronic 
fund transfer shall not contradict with these guidelines. 
2.15 Commercial bank shall post a notice of the provision or agreement 
as stated in 2.1 in a highly visible place in every office or inform all customers of such 
details. In addition, commercial bank shall also inform the Bank of Thail and of its 
guidelines and procedures as stated in 2.1.10. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/1- 
Attachment 5 
Guidelines for Security Control of Electronic Fund Transfer 
_______________________________________________________________ 
1. Rationale 
1.1 Commercial banks throughout the world competitively offer all kinds 
of service to customers. Banking services offered through electronic media signify a 
channel to which both banks and customers give much more attention because of its 
speed and convenience. In addition, c ustomers can perform transactions anytime 
anywhere without having to come to bank office. Currently, several banks are offering 
internet-based banking services to customers after obtaining approval from the Bank of 
Thailand. 
1.2 Nonetheless, commercial ba nks keen on offering banking services 
through electronic media must seriously consider strategic implications of such services. 
Due to rapid technological changes, banks require a high initial outlay and must consider 
technologies that can best serve custo mers. Board of directors of a bank must prudently 
assess strategic risks and should not resolve to offer such services only to catch up with 
other banks but should formulate a strategy befitting the organization. 
1.3 Even though e -banking services enable banks to respond to 
customer needs faster and more efficiently, they increase various types of inherent risks, 
especially security risks of service information, system, and related networks. 
1.4 Security risk is referred to potential risk in service syste m of financial 
institution which may be vulnerable to threats or various forms of illegitimate access, 
such as unauthorized access from both inside and outside the organization, theft of in -
transit data, unauthorized transaction using false authentication, and hacking that renders 
system inoperative. Beside using computer skills to tamper with the system, the bank’s 
service system may be vulnerable to other deceitful attempts that lure banks and 
customers to authorize access to the system or release vital i nformation (social 
engineering). 
1.5 In other countries, commercial banks have experienced intrusion into 
data systems by hackers and suffered losses. Such loss also poses considerable 
reputational risk for banks. Without operating processes designed to resolve problems 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/2- 
and inform customers quickly, such loss might be so severe that customers lost 
confidence, causing deposit run on the bank. 
1.6 When e -banking services are offered, commercial banks shall be 
cognizant of security control of the serv ice system, encompassing various elements 
ranging from the internal system to electronic media used by customers to perform 
transactions. In other countries, hackers successfully penetrated customer’s system and 
changed data to perform transaction by using false authentication (cookie poisoning). By 
using this technique, if no security system is installed in electronic media used by 
customers, the system might be harmed. Moreover, customer advice on provision of 
suitable security system is also instrumental in enhancing the effectiveness of the security 
procedures of commercial banks. 
2. Contents 
2.1 In these guidelines, 
“E-banking services” is referred to provision of banking services 
through electronic media whereby customers can perform transaction by themselves. 
“Banking services” is referred financial transactions and related ones 
whereby banks are permitted to operate, such as fund transfer, payment of goods and 
services, and displaying information in customer’s bank account as well as request for, 
examination, confirmation, change, and revision of customer data and transmitting order 
or exchanging information with customers so as to facilitate financial services and 
transactions. 
“Electronic media” is referred to equipment or tool used by banks 
as a channel for e -banking services, such as data recording media, communication 
devices, computer, and various forms of network. 
“Service system” is referred to information technology system and 
other technological systems involving in the provision of e -banking services, such as 
database system, applications, operating system, and network system. 
“Security technology” is referred to technique, computer tool, or 
various electronic devices used by banks in implementation of security control for e -
banking services. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/3- 
2.2 Principles 
2.2.1 These guidelines place emphasis on security of banking 
services through public network such as internet and wireless communication network 
which are interlinked with the bank’s internal network. As a result, it is highly likely that 
banks may be harmed by various forms of threat from intruder. 
2.2.2 Commercial bank that uses public network for dissemination 
of business information (informational website) should apply the principles of these 
guidelines in the development of suitable security measures in order to prevent 
unauthorized access that intends to amend or modify disseminated information which 
may undermine the bank’s reputation and customer confidence in banking services in the 
future when the scope of e-banking services will be further broadened. 
2.2.3 Commercial bank may apply these guidelines in the provision 
of e -banking services through other channels with lower risk profile, such as service 
provision through proprietary network. 
2.3 The contents of these guidelines are divided into three parts: 
2.3.1 Formulation of security policy 
2.3.2 Principal system security procedures that comprise the 
following security technologies: 
(1) Access control 
(2) Authentication and non-repudiation 
(3) System and data integrity 
(4) Data Confidentiality 
(5) System availability 
(6) Monitoring of abnormalities and vulne rabilities in the 
service system (system detection) 
(7) Incident response and report 
2.3.3 Security enhancement includes 
(1) Staff training and orientation 
(2) Dissemination of information and advice to customers 
(3) Internal control 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/4- 
In the following page, overall contents of the guidelines are summed up in an 
easy-to-understand diagram. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/5- 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/6- 
3. Detailed guidelines 
3.1 Security policy 
3.1.1 The bank’s board of directors shall be directly responsible for 
formulation of a written security policy for e -banking services and approval of security 
procedures which is proposed by the management. Accordingly, at least strateg ic 
applicability and insights into potential risks should be considered. The board may assign 
IT committee, risk management committee, executive board, or experienced external 
consultant to develop a security policy before presenting the proposed policy to the 
board for approval. 
3.1.2 In the development of the security policy for e -banking 
services, critical factors that must be considered include the balance between security 
procedures and potential risks that may arise from related transactions and rapi d 
technological changes. 
3.1.3 After approving the security policy and security procedures, 
the board shall designate executives and employees to oversee the implementation of 
the approved policy and procedures, communicate to all employees, monitor to e nsure 
that employees and parties associated with the system strictly adhere to the security 
policy and procedures, and review compliances where necessary. The effectiveness of 
security procedures depends on the existence of a coherent policy, effective 
communication, and suitable enforcement. Certainly, education and promotion of the 
awareness about security control and accountabilities among all levels of executive and 
employee will positively contribute to the implementation of the procedures. 
3.1.4 The board shall conduct assessment of the effectiveness of 
the security policy and procedures at least once a year or every time there are changes 
that might affect security control, such as launching of new product and service, 
modification of existing techn ology, or hacking incident. Such assessment may be carried 
out by external or internal experts who are not a system developer or system 
administrator. Furthermore, the bank should closely monitor technological advancement 
which will be used as inputs for f urther development of a more efficient security policy 
and better security procedures. 
3.1.5 Where the bank resorts to IT outsourcing for provision of e -
banking services, wholly or partly, the board shall arrange for assessment of the efficiency 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/7- 
of security procedures of service providers in accordance with the stipulated security 
policy and the Notification of the Bank of Thailand Re: IT Outsourcing. 
3.2 Principal security procedures 
Since e-banking services through public network such as interne t and 
wireless communication networks have open infrastructure, commercial bank must 
establish a link between public network and internal network. Consequently, the service 
system is prone to high risks and vulnerable to various forms of threat from hacker s that 
can harm banks, for example, imitating IP address to gain unauthorized access to internal 
network linked with the internet network, harming the service system by overloading the 
website, hacking into the service system to forge information with spur ious software, or 
infecting the service system with computer viruses. 
Therefore, the bank must have good security control procedures and 
choose effective security technologies that meet pertinent standards in order to 
safeguard against threats. When the sy stem becomes under threats, such technology can 
control damages and resolve problems. The principal security procedures for e -banking 
services include: 
3.2.1 Access control 
The procedures and technologies that control access to the 
service system must be able to prevent unauthorized access by internal and external 
entities and control access to the service system’s site and hardware (physical access 
control) and provide access control with computer techniques (logical access control). 
Such procedures should include 
(1) Stipulation of access rights that conform to customer's 
service needs and service staff’s responsibilities and regular review of access rights 
(2) Designation of authorized individual assigned to amend 
such access rights 
(3) Keeping access logs, revision of access rights, and login 
and logout records of the service system’s site which will be used as evidence in case 
problem arises. 
Examples of technologies that can safeguard against 
unauthorized access: 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/8- 
- Various types of firewa ll installed at network and 
application levels which are intended for detecting and filtering out deceitful data or 
codes from entering the service system 
- Detection and filtering tools that detect and block out 
deceitful programs or data from entering service system 
- Anti-virus software 
3.2.2 Authentication and non-repudiation 
Authentication and non-repudiation procedures and technologies 
are not only useful in verification of customer’s identity before granting authorization to 
use the service, but they also benefit customer with respect to verification of customer’s 
identity when he or she executes a transaction with the bank in case dispute arises. Such 
procedures should encompass the followings: 
(1) Provision of authentication techniques and cust omer’s 
right to use service before authorizing customer to access the service 
(2) Provision of authentication techniques that are 
commensurate with risk level and transactional features and amount 
(3) Provision of access control and alteration control of 
authentication database 
(4) Customer identity authentication must be conducted 
safely on an ongoing basis. If any disruption occurs, authen tication should commence 
again. 
(5) Maintaining transaction logs as evidence for examination 
and keeping such logs in secure storage. 
(6) Regularly review authentication techniques by considering 
risk level and ever-changing technological advancement. 
Examples of authentication and non-repudiation technologies 
- Password, PIN, tool or card used for storing person al data 
(tokens or smart card), biometrics 
- Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology that facilitates 
creation of digital certificate and signature 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/9- 
- Encryption technology that facilitates customer identity 
authentication 
- Use of highly sec ure channel for transmission and receipt 
of authentication data, e.g. Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
3.2.3 Maintaining system and data integrity 
The procedures that maintain the integrity of the service 
system and in -transit data, processed data, and stored data as well as ensure that the 
service system can operate effectively and satisfy customer needs efficiently should 
encompass the followings: 
(1) Design of the service system and selection of efficient 
technology 
(2) Conduct system testing to ensure s ystem integrity 
before startup or whenever change occurs 
(3) Provision of operational control of the service system, 
especially critical steps like procedures, processing, data transmission and storage so as to 
prevent unauthorized access 
(4) Implementation of stringent change control procedures 
3.2.4 Data confidentiality 
Data confidentiality procedures and technologies, especially 
in-transit data, processed data, and stored data should encompass the followings: 
(1) Provision of secure data transmission , processing, and 
storage that are commensurate with the degree of data criticality so as to avert exposure 
of confidential data and safeguard against illegitimate alteration. 
(2) Provision of security control that allows only person 
with access right that passes authentication test to get access or change confidential data 
(3) Maintaining access logs and revision records of 
confidential data which can be used as evidence in examination and keeping these 
evidences in secure location. 
Examples of technolo gy that maintains data integrity and 
confidentiality 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/10- 
- Encryption technology for confidential data, such as 
encryption for in -transit data (transport encryption), end -to-end encryption, and storage 
encryption 
- Use of highly secure channel for transmission and receipt 
of confidential data, e.g. Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
- Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology that facilitates 
creation of digital certificate and signature for authentication purpose before gaining 
access to confidential data 
3.2.5 Maintaining system availability 
The process that ensures system availability should 
encompass implementation that controls the service system’s efficiency and system 
availability on an on -going basis. At least the service system should have cap abilities to 
provide sufficient services during time period agreed with customers, accommodate 
transactions that meet customer needs adequately and speedily both during normal and 
peak hours. Moreover, the system should have proper data backup system so th at 
system can be restored in a timely manner in case damage occurs. 
With respect to contingency planning to cope with potential 
damage that may happen unexpectedly, the bank should develop a contingency plan to 
maintain system availability that deals with disruption stemming from the external system 
of third-party entities which the bank must depend on or have the system connected to. 
Accordingly, banks shall adhere to the guidelines in this Notification Re: Guidelines for 
Development of IT Contingency Plan (Annex 6) 
3.2.6 Monitoring system abnormalities and vulnerability (system 
detection) 
The procedures and technologies utilized to monitor system 
abnormalities and vulnerabilities should encompass the followings: 
(1) Provision of audit logs for critical activities, such as 
system access, transaction log, access to authentication database, and service staff’s 
conduct; such audit logs should be securely stored. 
(2) Regular monitoring and review of audit logs, particularly 
transaction logs which may indic ate abnormalities and likelihood of threat or intrusion 
attempt; any abnormality, whenever it is found, should be reported to management so 
that preventive plan can be developed before an incident actually happens. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/11- 
(3) Continuous detecti on and rec tification of system 
vulnerabilities, particularly network system, applications, and database; because intruder 
can capitalize on such defect to harm the system and gain unauthorized access. Most 
known vulnerabilities should be disclosed to general public in the website on an ongoing 
basis so that concerned parties can safeguard own system and upgrade their security 
system. 
(4) Penetration test: The aim is to test the efficiency of 
security technology, especially high-risk service system like fund transfer 
Examples of abnormalities and vulnerabilities detection 
technology include 
- Intrusion Detection System (IDS) 
- Technologies used for detection of spurious software or 
data in the system, such as network scanner, network analyzer, and security alert sy stems 
- Anti-virus software 
3.2.7 Incident response and report in case the system is harmed by 
threats 
The procedures for incident response and report in case the 
system is harmed by threats or hacking incidents should encompass the followings: 
(1) Assessing the likelihood of various threat and intrusion 
scenarios, including damage and impact assessment of such incident 
(2) Prompt problem identification 
(3) Action plan, designation of responsible personnel that 
should be trained to analyze and deal with potential problems; and reporting procedures 
(4) Data preparation and procedures for requesting 
assistance from internal and external experts, particularly technical assistance 
(5) Communication and public relations: These activities 
disseminate prop er information and promote understanding among employees, mass 
media, and customers as soon as possible about the problem and how the problem is 
solved. The aim is also to preserve the bank’s image and reputation and boost 
confidence of customers and concerned parties. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/12- 
(6) Gathering evidence for prosecution of hacker, such as 
access logs that are an evidence of access to database and other parts of the service 
system, hacker’s computer used as a communication device, hacker’s bank account 
involved in fund transfer, information about source, destination, route, date, time, and so 
forth. 
(7) Preparation of a written incident report that will be 
presented to the board of directors: However, the board may delegate the task of 
reviewing the report to IT committee, risk management committee, or audit committee. If 
the incident resulted in significant loss and impact on the bank’s reputation and 
operation, the board might also instruct the designated committee to present such report 
to the board. 
The written report should contain the followings: 
(7.1) Date, time, and location where the system is 
damaged by the threat or hacking incident. 
(7.2) Description of hacking incident, hacking 
technique, and hacker (if known) 
(7.3) Description of cause and damage; identification of 
damaged data, work system, or electronic medium 
(7.4) Damage assessment 
(7.5) Actions already taken to solve the problem and 
next actions 
(7.6) Details about responsible personnel at the 
location where the threat or hacking occu rred, such as name, position, address, 
telephone number, and roles and responsibilities. 
Banks should prepare information for the Bank of 
Thailand’s inspection. 
Examples of technology applications that deal with threat 
and hacking incident 
- Intrusion Detection System (IDS) 
- Technologies used for detection of spurious software or 
data in the system, such as network scanner designed to solve problems or abnormalities 
(Appendix 1 of Attachment 5: Examples of security technology for e-banking services) 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/13- 
3.3 Security enhancement procedures 
3.3.1 Staff training and education 
The bank should implement staff training and development 
programs on an ongoing basis for all levels of executive and employee involving in 
service provision. The aim is to raise awareness about service security and ensure that 
service provision complies with security policy and procedures to a full extent. Aside 
from that, concerned executives and employees should closely monitor latest 
technological development and threats and d isseminate useful information to the rest of 
the organization. 
3.3.2 Offering advice to customers 
The bank should provide useful information and advice to 
customers, such as using the service securely, technical information or advice on how to 
keep comput er system and hardware secured while executing a transaction, because 
intruder can hack into customer’s system to steal information and use false identity to 
transact with the bank. Moreover, customers should also be advised to be wary of 
downloading software from unknown or suspecting sources and usage of such software 
because intruder might conceal malicious software in the downloaded one. (Appendix 2 
of Attachment 5: Advice for e-banking customers) 
Such information and advice should be described in layma n’s 
language in bank’s website where customers can access readily. To further facilitate 
dissemination of customer advice, the bank may provide Help Desk service assigned to 
respond to queries and give advice on e -banking services. Furthermore, the bank ma y 
organize customer training program in order to provide knowledge and enhance 
understanding about security measures that may be relevant to customers and bank’s 
security system that customers should know. Such training program is another mean to 
promote awareness and raise confidence in e-banking services. 
The bank should disclose service agreement and terms to 
customers and solicit customers to accept the agreement and terms before deciding to 
subscribe to the services. For fund transfer service, banks shall adhere to this Notification 
Re: Guidelines for Electronic Fund Transfer (Annex 4) 
3.3.3 Internal control 
The bank should establish suitable internal control 
procedures for e-banking services, for example, ensuring that e-banking services do not 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/14- 
violate relevant legal provisions and regulations of concerned authorities, whether 
operational modes and applicable technologies, administration of concerned personnel 
adheres to a suitable principle of segregation of duties, having explicit operating 
procedures, suitable supervision of the operations, maintaining activity logs of service 
staff, safekeeping of service logs and important documents relating to service provision. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/15- 
Appendix 1 of Attachment 5 
Examples of security technology for e-banking services 
A. Security technology for the service system 
The security technologies for the service system interlinked between 
internal and external networks, especially internet and wireless communication networks, 
include 
1. Firewall 
Firewall is a technology that prevents intrusion into internal network 
by examining and authorizing access only to pertinent information that passes through 
the network. It also blocks data and codes sent from suspicious sources. 
The effectiveness of firewall depends on design, installation, control, 
and maintenance. The design, installation, control, and maintenance procedures should 
be clearly described in a written document. To enhance firewall’s effectiveness, 
continuous inspection and improvement procedures should also be established. 
Applications of the firewall technology for the security of the service 
system should include 
1.1 Installation of external firewall to control data transmission 
between external network and web server 
1.2 Installation of internal fi rewall to control data transmission 
between web server and internal network 
1.3 Using different types of firewall for each layer to make intrusion 
protection more formidable 
1.4 Stipulation of clearly written operating procedures for firewall, 
such as installation, configuration setting, control, and maintenance for the benefit of 
monitoring and maintenance and so as to engage it promptly in case damage occurs. 
2. Encryption technology 
Encryption technology is a technique that can maintain data 
confidentiality and integrity by transforming data into an unrecognizable format. The 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/16- 
effectiveness of encryption technology depends on cryptographic algorithm, cryptographic key, 
and key management process. 
When encryption technology is considered, se lected technology 
should be commensurate with risk level, data criticality, and required degree of security. 
Key considerations include 
2.1 Selected encryption algorithm should be tested to meet certain 
security standard, such as TripleDES, AES128/192/ 256, SSL/RC4/128, and RSA 1024+. B ank 
should also closely monitor the development of encryption algorithm. 
2.2 Implementation of efficient key management process. Any 
operation relating to all types of key such as creation, storage, delivery, and alteration 
should be conducted carefully under proper control procedure. 
2.3 Implementation of efficient control of data transmission: Data 
transmission between the bank and customer should pass through a highly secure 
channel like Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Trans mission of confidential or critical data like 
password should be subjected to encryption from the point where customer begins to 
enter data and along the route towards the server in the internal network where 
processing takes place (end-to-end encryption). Additionally, in-transit critical data should 
also be encrypted (transport encryption). 
2.4 Establishment of security system for encryption and decryption 
hardware and software. 
3. Intrusion detection system 
The intrusion detection system is a technolo gy that can detect 
abnormalities, hacking, or intrusion into internal network or database by analyzing data 
flown through the network and compare data features with those of data posing intrusion 
threat or by analyzing behavioral pattern of the network’s o peration that deviates from 
the normal pattern. 
The intrusion detection system should be installed at critical server or 
internal network. Moreover, reporting procedures should be established where 
abnormalities or intrusion attempts are observed. 
4. Other security technologies 
4.1 Install active content filter or a tool that can detect and block 
malicious software, codes, files, or emails from entering into internal network. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/16- 
4.2 Install web application firewall or scanner to detect and block 
malicious instructions or codes from entering into the web application layer of internal 
network 
4.3 Install anti-virus software to safeguard the service system. 
B. Authentication technology 
Presently, there are authentication technologies as follows: 
1. Password and personal identification number 
This is the most common authentication technique because its 
usage is easy and convenient. Customer must enter user name and password that is a 
personal identification number (PIN) for verification by the system before accessing to the 
service. The efficiency of the service system that uses password as the authentication 
technique depends on safekeeping of password and requirement of password’s format 
and length and other relevant control measures. 
The service system that uses password as the authentication 
technique should conduct the followings: 
- Give advice to customers and staff about requirements and 
safekeeping of password. 
- Stipulate suitable format and length of password that is 
commensurate with risk level of each transaction. Generally, password should be at least 
eight characters long, whether numeric, alphabet, or alphanumeric. 
- Name of person, place, or vocabularies found in Thai and 
English dictionaries may not be used in a password. 
- Suspend service to user whose failed login attempts exceed 
designated quota. 
- Stop service when the system has not been active for a certain 
period of time 
- Determine a suitable usage life of password. 
- Establish secure procedures for password c reation, delivery and 
receipt as well as safekeeping of password. Password should be encrypted while it is 
being transmitted or received and stored. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/17- 
- Segregate database where passwords are stored from other 
databases that is subjected to stringent security measures. 
2. Electronic certificate and signature 
Electronic certificate is electronic data or any other data record 
that attests linkage between signature owner and data used in creation of electronic 
signature. 
Electronic signature constitute s alphabet, character, number, 
sound, or other symbol created in an electronic form which is used to supplement 
electronic data to validate relationship between an individual and electronic data. The 
objective is to identify a person who is the owner of el ectronic signature associated with 
such electronic data and indicate that that person accepts such electronic data. 
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology which is an effective 
authentication technology and a technology that can effectively maintain d ata 
confidentiality and integrity can be used to create electronic signature and certificate 
called digital signature and digital certificate. 
PKI technology arises from the principles of public key and private 
key which are produced from algorithms teste d and proven to be secured. Public key is 
kept by a proprietor that issues electronic certificate or so -called certificate authority. 
Private key is kept confidential in computer or smart card belonged to the owner of 
electronic signature. This private key is used to create digital signature when a customer 
sends data to the bank. 
Digital signature is an electronic signature produced from the 
private key of a person and can be used to verify the identity of that person by having 
that person’s public key au thenticated. The certificate authority that keeps that person’s 
public key will be responsible for sending the public key to a counter party that demands 
authentication and issuing digital certificate to attest that the public key belongs to that 
person. 
The service system that uses PKI as an authentication technique 
should conduct the followings: 
- Examination of received digital certificate before granting access 
to execute a transaction, such as cross-checking with up-to-date certificate revocation list 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/18- 
- Ensuring security of the work system and computer that 
accommodate authentication by PKI technology 
- Provision of operational logs of the work system and computer 
that accommodate authentication by PKI technology 
3. Token/smart card 
This authentication technique uses an object belonged to a 
customer like a card with embedded chip (smart card) together with password or 
biometrics of the customer. This technique is more secure than the one that relies solely 
on password in the authentication. 
The service system that uses token/smart card as an authentication 
technique should conduct the followings: 
- Arrange for secure production and delivery of token/smart card 
- Determine suitable usage life, replacement method, and 
termination method 
- Suspend service to user whose failed login attempts exceed 
designated quota. 
- Establish guidelines and agreement for usage of token/smart 
card and inform customers how to use token/smart card securely. 
4. Biometrics 
This authentication technique relie s on customer’s unique features 
such as voice and fingerprint as well as hand, eyeball, and facial features and so forth. 
Such unique features are stored for comparison purpose and customer’s authentication 
before granting execution of a transaction. 
The service system that uses biometrics as an authentication 
technique should conduct the followings: 
- Arrange for secure procedures for recording of customer’s 
biometrics. 
- Arrange for encryption of in -transit biometrics and proper 
storage of biometrics. 
- Suspend service to user whose failed login attempts exceed 
designated quota. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/19- 
Appendix 2 of Attachment 5 
Advice for E-banking Customers 
Commercial banks should disseminate useful advice to customers to 
create better awareness so that customers recognize the importance of security while 
using the service. Such advice should include 
1) Customer should not disclose own PIN and password to other person, 
not write or note password where it is highly visible, destroy PIN and password 
notification document, and be wary of scam or fraud that deceive customers to disclose 
PIN and password. 
2) Advice customer on how to designate a secure password, frequent 
change of password, and channels where customer can promptly report any problem 
related to PIN and password. 
3) Advice customer to verify bank's website address before starting to 
execute a transaction in order to avoid exposure to deceitful website. 
4) Advice customer to check the accuracy of transactional details such 
as amount, transaction date , account number, and outstanding balance on regular basis 
in order to avoid potential irregularities in the transactional execution. 
5) Advice customer on how to keep his/her own computer secured, for 
example: 
- Install and use reliable anti -virus software that regularly updates 
virus information and also virus filtering software via internet. 
- Control access to personal data. 
- Log in and out the service system properly. 
- Do not leave the computer or hardware while executing a 
transaction and log out the service system properly after completion of a transaction. 
- Use computer and hardware that are compatible with the bank’s 
security system. 
- Avoid using sub -standard computer and hardware or hardware 
that comes from unreliable sources. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-5/20- 
- Avoid using public computer to perform e-banking transaction. 
- Avoid accessing to suspicious website. 
- Avoid disclosure of PIN, banking information, or credit card 
information to any unknown or unreliable website. 
- Avoid opening unknown or suspicious emails (junk email). 
- Avoid downloading or using software from unknown sources or 
sources where existence cannot be verified because customer’s system may receive virus 
software or other attached software that allows intruder to gain unauthorized access. 
6) Ensuring that customer understands the scope of responsibilities on 
the part of the bank and customer. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/1- 
Attachment 6 
Guidelines for Development of IT Contingency Plan 
_______________________________________________________________ 
Commercial banks utilize IT system in service provision, supported with 
network links with internal network and those of other domestic and international 
entities. Therefore, if there was occurrence of an incident that causes any disruption or 
damage to IT system, whether it be natural disaster, accident, or malicious intent against 
banking system, such as fire, flood, sabotage, and computer virus, banking businesses 
would be affected immediately and customer service would be disrupted, caus ing 
widespread impacts on other entities interlinked with the network. Accordingly, if a bank 
does not have suitable procedures to deal with such occurrence, customers, end users, 
and stakeholders may lose confidence in the bank itself and the banking syst em as a 
whole. 
The procedure that deals with such woeful incident is critical and it must 
be used when banks face such problem. If banks were well prepared, impacts would be 
mitigated, thus ensuring that its IT system would be restored within a reasonable period 
of time and the confidence of customers and stakeholders on the business and banking 
services would be maintained. It is imperative that banks have an efficient IT contingency 
plan that can be implemented when facing with a real harmful incident. T hus, the aim is 
to maintain business and service continuity or at least something close to the status quo. 
Contents 
1. In these guidelines, 
“Management committee” is referred to a bank’s committee or executive 
body incumbent on relevant responsibilities (in case of foreign bank branch). 
2. Principles 
2.1 In the development of IT contingency plan, commercial bank shall 
consider its feasibility, ensuring that IT contingency plan can be applied in a real harmful 
incident. IT contingency plan shall be viewe d as a normal part of business operation and 
must be in accord with the guidelines of the Bank of Thailand Re: Business Continuity 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/2- 
Management (BCM) and Development of Business Continuity Plan (BCP). Furthermore, it is 
required that the bank hold eme rgency response drill at both operational and 
organizational levels at least once a year to assure that the contingency plan can be 
used effectively in real situation. Where operating systems are linked with external 
network or services are provided by ext ernal entities, the bank and external entities 
should jointly exercise such drill. 
2.2 In the development of IT contingency plan, commercial bank should 
consider pertinent elements so that the plan's format can be tailor -made to suit the 
complexity of bus iness operations, such as security system and internal control system, 
type and level of potential risks faced by the bank, customers, and stakeholders as well 
as overall banking and money market systems. 
2.3 Commercial bank shall consider management of potential risks 
stemming from various harmful incidents. Beside general types of risk like operational risk 
and reputation risk, the bank should also consider other pertinent risks, including 
2.3.1 System risk: For example, disruption at one bank may cau se 
disruption to banking and money market systems as a whole. 
2.3.2 Independency risk: For example, telecommunication or IT 
services provided by other service providers. If such service provider could not serve the 
bank, banking operations might be disrupted. 
2.3.3 Concentration risk of critical operating systems or resources: 
For example, where clustering of telecommunication or utility system is located nearby 
bank office, if any damage occurred, these systems might suffer from losses at the same 
time. Another example is clustering of external service providers whereby many banks are 
served by the same service provider. 
2.4 Where commercial bank resorts to IT outsourcing to support banking 
operations, its management committee shall arrange appraisal of the efficiency of IT 
contingency planning procedure to ensure that IT contingency plan conforms to IT 
contingency planning policy as formulated by the bank. IT outsourcing shall adhere to 
the Notification of the Bank of Thailand Re: IT Outsourcing. 
3. The essence of these guidelines include 
3.1 Roles and responsibilities of management committee 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/3- 
3.2 Policy and guidelines for development of IT contingency plan 
3.3 Main processes in development IT contingency plan 
3.3.1 Business impact analysis 
3.3.2 Risk analysis and control 
3.3.3 IT contingency plan and strategic development 
3.3.4 IT contingency plan development 
3.3.5 Public relations and training 
3.3.6 Testing, improvement, and verification 
To readily comprehend the contents, overal l contents of the guidelines are summed up 
in the diagram in the following page. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/4- 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/5- 
4. Detailed guidelines 
4.1 Roles and responsibilities of the management committee 
The management committee is incumbent on the followings: 
4.1.1 Establish policy and guidelines for development of a written 
IT contingency plan. The management committee may designate IT committee, risk 
management committee, or an executive body to establish such policy and guidelines 
and have them presented to the management committee for approval. 
4.1.2 Appoint a working group that is responsible for development 
of IT contingency plan in accordance with prescribed policy and guidelines. After the 
working group finishes drafting IT contingency plan, a cont ingency plan shall be proposed 
to the management committee for review and approval before its implementation. 
4.1.3 Ensure that staff and concerned parties properly implement 
IT contingency plan in both simulated incident and real harmful incident. 
4.1.4 Arrange evaluation of the effectiveness of the policy and 
guidelines in the development of IT contingency plan at least once a year. Whenever 
there is any change that impacts on the contingency plan, such as changes in business 
strategy, overall risk man agement policy, business environment, or key IT resources, the 
management committee shall promptly arrange evaluation of the effectiveness of such 
policy and guidelines. 
4.2 Policy and guidelines in the development of IT contingency plan 
4.2.1 The mana gement committee shall prescribe the policy and 
guidelines for the development of IT contingency plan by considering the conformity with 
business continuity plan policy and risk management policy as well as business 
complexities, rapidly changing technolog ical advancement, banking environment, and 
organizational roles in the stabilization of banking and money market systems. 
4.2.2 In the development of IT contingency plan, the management 
committee should consider the followings: 
(1) Disaster identificat ion: Identify potential harmful 
incidents that impact on IT system utilized in banking operations. 
(2) Business impact analysis: Analyze impacts on IT -
dependent businesses in case of system disruption. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/6- 
(3) Risk assessment and risk management: Asse ss and 
manage potential risks stemming from harmful incident as well as determine acceptable 
risk level and maximum allowable disruption time in business operations and IT resources 
system in each operating system. 
For instance, details in the policy and guidelines for the 
development of IT contingency plan may include overall objectives, outline of the plan, 
scope of the plan, plan development steps and time frame, and designation of those 
responsible for plan development as well as roles and responsibili ties, identification of 
potential harmful incident, determination of acceptable risk level, risk management 
criteria, emergency response approaches, public relations approaches, and so forth. 
4.2.3 Policy and guidelines for development of IT contingency p lan 
should encompass four key aspects of planning process as follows: 
(1) Disaster preparedness: The aim is to prevent and reduce 
potential occurrence of harmful incident that impacts on banking operations and services, 
for example, determination of risk prevention measures and ensuring that employees 
understand their roles and responsibilities. 
(2) Emergency response: The aim is to control and limit the 
extent of damage and potential impacts on the bank, customers, concerned parties, and 
overall banking system, for example, determination of measures for control and 
rectification of emergency situation. 
(3) Business continuity: Ensuring that the business can 
continue to operate, such as critical data and equipment backup, system and data 
recovery, and ar rangement of the opening of backup center and staff transfer whenever 
disaster struck. 
(4) Business restoration: Ensuring that banking business and 
services return to normalcy quickly, for example, determination of business restoration 
approaches, stipula tion of control procedures for installation, configuration setting, and 
testing of recovered or substituted IT resources, and determination of damage 
assessment techniques. 
4.2.4 Commercial bank shall appoint a distinctive working group to 
develop IT cont ingency plan. Working group members should be nominated from 
relevant IT and business departments and each department’s responsibilities should be 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/7- 
defined explicitly and appropriately. Accordingly, executives of each relevant department 
should take part in the development of IT contingency plan. 
4.3 Principal procedures of the development of IT contingency plan 
Commercial bank shall establish a process for the development of 
efficient IT contingency plan whereby such contingency plan can be pract ically 
implemented in real situation, thus ensuring that the bank can continue to operate IT -
dependent businesses. The principal procedures of the development of IT contingency 
plan include 
4.3.1 Business impact analysis: Commercial bank shall assess and 
analyze business impacts in order to learn about the relationship between business 
operations and IT system and business impacts stemming from disruption of the IT 
system. Consequently, the bank can effectively prioritize business operations and IT 
resources expended in recovery efforts. The approaches are as follows: 
(1) Analyze and identify business operations that are 
dependent on internal and external IT systems, vulnerable areas which are prone to 
system failure, financial and non -financial impacts from disruption, and allowable 
maximum disruption time in business operation. 
(2) Prioritize business operation that requires system 
recovery and stipulate timing for system recovery and the goals of operating systems and 
data that should be recovered following any disruption. 
(3) Stipulate the level of business continuity in each 
business operation. For instance, deposit/withdrawal services at bank branches should be 
assigned with a high level of business continuity. Thus, these services should be able to 
operate continuously during business hours. 
(4) Analyze and identify internal and external IT resources 
required for business operations identified in 3.3.1 (1) as well as potential impacts 
following disruption of IT resources and allowable maximum di sruption time of IT 
resources. 
(5) Prioritize IT resources identified in 3.3.1 (4) that are 
required for system recovery, stipulate recovery timing, the goals of operating systems 
and data that should be recovered following any disruption, and minimum IT resources 
required for system recovery. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/8- 
4.3.2 Risk analysis and control: Commercial bank shall identify 
factors that may induce risks and impacts on IT system on which business operations 
must dependent and improve control procedures to mitigate o r avert potential impacts. 
The control procedures are as follows: 
(1) Assess risks that may disrupt IT resources utilized in 
business operations by identifying incidents that might cause disruption, internal and 
external causes or sources of threat, vuln erable areas, severity and possibility of business 
disruption and acceptable risk level. 
(2) Analyze risk control procedures and improve the 
procedures and resources required for controlling risks that might cause disruption as well 
as conducting assessment and control of such procedures. 
4.3.3 Strategic development of IT contingency plan 
Commercial bank shall formulate a strategy for development 
of IT contingency plan that is suitable with disruptive incident and its business 
environment and resources. A ccordingly, the plan will encompass identified risks and 
business impacts. Such strategy should conform to the bank’s business continuity plan. 
When strategic options of IT contingency plan are determined, commercial bank should 
consider the followings: 
(1) Achievement of stipulated goals, such as system 
recovery timing, goals of operating systems and data that should be recovered following 
any disruption, and minimum IT resources required for system recovery. 
(2) Key factors that influence selection of strategic options 
so that the bank can have a clear direction on the development of IT contingency plan 
that will achieve stipulated goals, such as managing critical information, acquiring backup 
technology, roles and responsibilities of operating staff. ( Appendix 1 of Attachment 6: 
Examples of influential factors in the selection of strategic options of IT contingency plan) 
(3) Allocate adequate budget for each strategy and ensure 
that the budget is sufficient for all required activities. Moreover, the ba nk may conduct 
cost and benefit analysis for each alternative for comparison and deliberation on suitable 
strategies. 
Examples of strategic formulation, for instance, in the 
selection of alternative system recovery approaches, one IT system may present tw o 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/9- 
alternatives, that is, implementation of system recovery by procuring backup equipment 
or migrating IT operations to backup IT system. 
4.3.4 Development of IT Contingency plan 
IT contingency plan should have explicit form and content so 
that actions can be taken quickly and easily and should have flexibility when dealing with 
potential situation. In detail, IT contingency plan should include the following key 
elements: (Appendix 2 of Attachment 6): Examples of the structure of IT contingency 
plan) 
(1) Operational support data 
Operational support data helps ease understanding, 
implementation, and improvement of IT contingency plan. Such support data should 
include the title of the plan, objectives, scope, relationship with other operational plans , 
details of IT system, organizational chart showing line of command under the contingency 
plan, assignment of staff on duty and their responsibilities, and standby person in case 
assigned person is unable to perform duties as well as record of plan revision. 
(2) Emergency response 
Commercial bank should have emergency response 
procedures as follows: 
(2.1) Detection of incident that may cause disruption 
or disaster and prompt notification to concerned groups or personnel 
(2.2) Prompt and accurate assess ment of the 
magnitude and aspects of the damage that impacts on the system and notification of the 
assessment to system recovery group or concerned personnel 
(2.3) Stipulation of precise command and decision -
making procedures, deliberation on the setup of command center, designation of an 
individual or a group of individuals responsible for directing and decision -making as well 
as approaches and criteria for initial system recovery based on consideration of various 
factors such as magnitude of damage on IT system, personnel safety, IT system’s 
criticality to banking operations. 
(3) Implementation of system recovery 
Commercial bank should consider procedures that can 
operate IT system temporarily, repair damages on the existing system, in-situ restoration 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/10- 
or relocation to a new site. System recovery procedures should have the following 
aspects: 
(3.1) Stipulation of explicit operational steps for 
system recovery and attention on communication and coordination within a group and 
between various oper ating groups. In addition, the bank should have a system or 
documentation of operational details and any consequential mistake or problem 
following failure of system recovery, for example, checklist of actions taken. The aim is to 
control that the operatio n follows required steps. Subsequently, operating results and 
defined targets can be compared and evaluated, thus resulting in further improvement of 
the efficiency of IT contingency plan. 
(3.2) Have detailed steps for system recovery 
operation that conf orm to system recovery priorities identified by business impact 
analysis and defined recovery timing. 
(3.3) Have alternative steps for system recovery 
operation in case the operation cannot follow the steps of the stipulated plan. For 
instance, while system recovery of one operating system was being carried out, the server 
of that operating system could not function normally because some server equipment 
malfunctioned. In such case, the bank should prepare an alternative operation, for 
example, replacing defective equipment or server. However, the bank should consider an 
alternative that is not dependent on IT system but also have to establish prevention 
procedures to avert potential risks. 
(3.4) While implementing system recovery, the bank 
should be care ful not to skip or neglect required steps and avoid introducing new 
procedures, unless additional steps are approved by authoritative person. 
(4) Business restoration 
Commercial bank should consider procedures that 
attest system operability after the system is restored. Such operation may require existing 
or new IT resources, for example, control procedures for installation, configuration setting, 
testing of recovered or substituted IT resources or procedures for migration from backup 
IT system to the main IT system. 
(5) Documentation of planned implementation 
Commercial bank shall arrange documentation of 
planned implementation of IT contingency plan and store these documents at a secure 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/11- 
location which is not affected by disruptive incident. At least one copy of the documents 
should be kept at the authoritative person and another copy should be kept at the 
backup location, thus allowing relevant personnel to access to and use documents for 
planned implementation. 
4.3.5 Public relations and training 
(1) Public relations 
Commercial bank shall arrange public relations program 
for IT contingency plan by stipulating explicit public relations activities and action steps 
so that all concerned staff are aware of the details regarding plan development, plan 
implementation steps, concerned staff, and any change. 
Aside from that, the bank shall stipulate public relations 
activities and action steps in dealing with emergency situation in order to convince 
customers that banking services can continue without any disruption, such as publicizing 
how to communicate to the bank in case normal communication channel fails or inform 
customers when services will resume after disruptive incident. 
(2) Training 
Commercial bank shall organize training for concerned 
employees that are involved in plan implementation at least once a year. Training topics 
should at least cover objectives of the plan, action steps, coordination and 
communication among different groups, reporting procedures, security system, internal 
procedures of each operating group, and individual responsibility. The employees that 
attend the training course should understand and be able to implement the plan even 
without plan implementation documents. 
4.3.6 Testing, improvement, and review 
(1) Plan testing 
Commercial bank shall regularly conduct testing of the 
plan at operational and organizational levels at least once a year or whenever the plan is 
revised, especially operating systems that impact on service provision of the whole 
banking system in t he event of disruption, such as deposit system and interbank fund 
transfer and payment systems. If such operating systems are linked to external network 
or served by external entities, the bank should jointly test the contingency plan with 
concerned external entities. In system testing, the bank should exercise caution to avoid 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/12- 
repercussions on normal banking operations and maintain record of test results for 
comparison with defined targets. Furthermore, test results will be reported to the 
management committee so that they will be used as criteria for evaluation of test results 
and improvement of the efficiency of IT contingency plan. 
The details of system testing that are stipulated in IT 
contingency plan of each operating system by the bank inclu de test objectives, scope of 
the test, test scenarios, test duration and steps, required resources, and evaluation 
criteria. Moreover, considerations should also encompass actual operations and specified 
scenarios. In system testing, the bank may conduct p artial or full testing. However, it is 
suggested that the bank conduct a full test at least once a year. In each test, only a 
single scenario may be chosen. 
(2) Improvement 
The bank shall clearly define action plan, guidelines, 
and duration of the review and improvement of IT contingency plan, thus ensuring that IT 
contingency plan is practical and in accord with technological development, current 
situation, and the bank’s policy and strategies. Accordingly, the bank should arrange plan 
review and improv ement at least once a year or whenever there is any change that 
impacts on the contingency plan, such as transfer of staff responsible for plan 
implementation and changes in IT system environment. Moreover, the bank should also 
consider updating informatio n and documents distributed to staff or external entities in 
accordance with such improvement. 
(3) Review 
The bank should arrange a review of IT contingency 
plan to validate procedures for plan development, thus ensuring viability of the plan. 
Moreover, reviewer may be chosen from external or internal entities within the 
organization but must be able to work independently. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/13- 
Appendix 1 of Attachment 6 
Examples of influential factors in the selection of strategic options of IT contingency plan 
1. Management of critical data 
Commercial bank should develop critical data management procedure to 
attest their existence, integrity, security, and accessibility. When there is occurrence of a 
disruptive incident, the bank should have the following procedures: 
1. Identify data or groups of data that are critical to banking operations 
such as financial transactions of each customer and the bank’s asset management data 
as well as information required for installation of operating systems. Aside from that, the 
bank should also take into account critical data of each operating unit or bank staff 
stored in personal computer which may not be backed up properly. 
2. Regarding data backup and retrieval, the bank should stipulate precise 
and suitable methods that are commensurate with assigned criticality of information. 
Aside from that, the bank should also determine frequency of data backup and external 
storage sites as well as conduct testing to confirm readiness and suitability of the 
facilities. 
3. Regarding the setup of external backup sources, the bank should 
consider pertinent factors such as location and environment, security protocol, 
accessibility, and stored data. 
2. Provision of backup IT system 
Commercial bank shall procure backup IT system that ca n be used as a 
substitute for the main IT system in case of harmful incident in order to maintain business 
and service continuity. The backup IT system may be a backup site and/or backup IT 
system for certain portion of the system, such as data, applicatio ns, computer, and 
network equipment. Key considerations include 
1. Main and backup IT systems should be located quite far from each 
other and should not share same utility sources. Moreover, risk distribution principles 
should be adopted to avert widespread disruption. 
2. Backup IT system must be overseen or tested to ensure that it can 
process data in accordance with planned system recovery procedures and guidelines. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/14- 
Moreover, data backup methods, frequency, and type of data must be stipulated t o 
commensurate with necessity, priority, and impact on operating system in case of harmful 
incident. 
3. Backup IT system should be available and readily accessible at all time 
or should at least be able to substitute the main IT system in case of disrupt ion. In 
addition, the backup IT system should have security system that conforms to the bank's 
security policy and can deal with potential harmful incident with long -term 
consequences. 
Examples of backup IT system include 
- Active/backup model is an IT s ystem configuration whereby a main 
computer system serves the operation and another system works as a backup system. 
The backup system will start operating whenever the main computer system cannot 
function normally or encounters disruption. The backup syst em is installed with 
computer hardware compatible with the main computer system. In most cases, the 
backup system can operate for many hours. Moreover, the backup system may be served 
by external entities. 
- Split operation model or active/active model i s an IT system 
configuration that maintains more than two separate IT system sites. Each site operates 
interdependently as backup system and each site is capable of taking over some part or 
the whole operation of another site for a certain period of time. When a disruption occurs 
at one site, another site will restore the operation promptly or almost instantly. However, 
this model may have a rather high maintenance cost because maintenance and 
improvement must be carried out at several main IT system sites. 
When determining backup IT system configurations, the bank should 
review the suitability in terms of size, complexity, and the bank’s operations as well as 
potential risks, risk management approaches, and the bank’s operating cost. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/15- 
Appendix 2 of Attachment 6 
Examples of the structure of IT contingency plan 
Examples of the structure of IT contingency plan are presented so that 
commercial bank can use these examples as guidelines for plan implementation whereby 
the examples may be applied i n accordance with the bank’s policy and guidelines on 
development of IT contingency plan and risk management policy, business continuity 
policy, and other relevant policies. Moreover, the bank should also consider 
modifications that are suitable with the current situation. 
Generally, examples of the structure of IT contingency plan should 
encompass the followings: 
Operational support data: To ease understanding, implementation, and improvement of 
the plan: 
1. Title of contingency plan: Specify title of the plan 
2. Objectives of contingency plan development: Identify plan objectives; 
potential risk-based impacts on the bank, customers, and other relevant external entities; 
and expected outcome resulted from plan implementation. 
3. Scope of contingency p lan: Identify scope of operating system, 
detailed operating procedures, and part of operating system where the plan will be 
enforced as well as detailed work flow. 
4. Details of IT system: Identify title and structure of IT system, security 
system, and communication system. 
5. Designation of authoritative person: Identify persons empowered to 
make decision and put the plan into action (authoritative and responsible persons), roles 
and duties, and scope of responsibilities as well as designation of a person who will take 
over the responsibilities in the event the first authoritative person is unable to perform 
his/her duties. 
6. Alternative site: Identify an alternative site that can take over the 
operation of the main site in the event of a sabotage that may incapacitate the main site. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/16- 
7. Record of changes: Indicate preparation and revision date and names 
of those who prepare, revise, and review the plan. Additionally, a short description of 
revision should be stated. 
Action plan: The elaboration of scenarios, conditions for the implementation of action 
plan, relevant details and steps, required resources, and detailed scope and limitation 
encompasses four areas of planning as follows: 
1. Pre-incident preparedness: Stipulate preventi on and risk control 
procedures to prevent and reduce opportunities for occurrence of harmful incident. 
2. Emergency response: To control and limit the scope of damage and 
other repercussions in the event of harmful incident. The emergency response procedu re 
include 
a) Conditions for plan implementation : Determine or identify 
conditions or situations. 
b) Identify basic action steps: Preliminary assessment of the situation, 
location, cause, and scope of damage; specify actions that put an end to harmful 
incident; relevant operational approaches; approaches for data and document storage; 
staff safety and evacuation; and required IT resources. 
c) Determine communication action plan : Stipulate methods of 
communication to operating units or other relevant per sons, both internal and external, 
to inform them of the situation and operational approaches or contingency contact site; 
develop directories of various units or those responsible for assistance; and cease internal 
and external damages arising from the incident. 
d) Identify resource requirements : Clearly specify the needs for 
resources, number of personnel, location, equipment and tools, and telecommunication 
and public utility systems 
3. Business continuity plan: This is an action plan mentioned in Claus e 2 
that ensures the continuity of IT system which supports banking business or the recovery 
of IT system within stipulated period of time without other persistent impacts. Details are 
as follows: 
a) Conditions for plan implementation : Determine or identi fy 
conditions or situations. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/17- 
b) Identify basic action steps : Identify steps, priorities, and timing of 
system recovery. Specify operational methods and how to start backup data system to 
ensure uninterrupted operation. 
c) Determine communicati on action plan : Stipulate communication 
methods and coordination with operating units or other relevant persons, both internal 
and external, to keep them informed of the facts and operational approaches or 
temporary site. 
d) Identify resource requirements : Clearly identify resource needs in 
case the recovery might take a long time, the number of personnel, backup site, 
equipment and tools, and telecommunication and public utility systems 
4. Resumption of the operation: To restore operating systems and put 
them in order again as well as assess damages and future preventive approaches. Details 
are as follows: 
a) Identify action steps : Specify operational methods to restore the 
situation; control procedures for installation, configuration setting, and testi ng of 
recovered or substituted system. Also, submit damage report to the superior. 
b) Identify relevant persons : Prepare directories of operating units or 
persons, both internal and external that are responsible for lending assistance to restore 
the situation. 
Public relations and training : Designate public relations steps and schemes that deal 
with bank staff and customers. Hold training for operating units and relevant staff so that 
all concerned parties are aware of the objectives, operating procedures , coordination, 
communication between different groups, reporting procedures, security system, and own 
duties and responsibilities in accordance with the contingency plan. 
Testing, improvement, and review of the contingency plan 
1. Testing 
a) Determine testing period: Specify coherent testing frequency and 
duration of testing from the beginning until the end of testing procedure 
b) Identify tested scenarios and relevant details : When describing 
scenario details, objectives, scope of operating system, or operating procedures relating 
to the whole test of contingency plan as well as detailed steps of the test should be 
elaborated. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-6/18- 
c) Resources required for testing of the plan : Designate persons 
responsible for controlling, coordination, and man agement of testing of the contingency 
plan, including site, equipment and tools, and budget. 
d) Evaluation criteria : Designate persons responsible for evaluation, 
defining evaluation criteria that may differ depending on the aspects of operating 
systems, operating procedures, and the objectives of each test. 
2. Plan improvement and review 
a) Duration of the review : Clearly stipulate action plan, approaches, 
duration of the review and improvement, ensuring that the plan is most up -to-date and 
suitable with current situation. 
b) Designate person responsible for the review: Designate reviewer to 
attest applicability of various procedures for the development of IT contingency plan. 
Additional information 
Other details that should be included in IT contingency plan are as follows: 
1. Names, addresses, and phone numbers of bank staff responsible for 
plan implementation 
2. Names of operating units, locations, and phone numbers of concerned 
external entities 
3. Checklist 
4. Required report formats 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/1- 
Attachment 7 
Minimum data standards of operating systems of commercial bank that uses 
computer data processing 
_______________________________________________________________ 
To standardize data storage of commercial bank that uses computer fo r 
data processing purposes in order to accommodate reference needs of the bank itself 
and facilitate supervision of the Bank of Thailand, it deems advisable by the Bank of 
Thailand to prescribe minimum data standards of operating systems of commercial bank 
that uses computer data processing. To this end, at least the bank must record and store 
data in accordance with these standards within the scope and details of data used in 
operating systems. Data record may be in a form of report or other forms of recor ding 
medium which facilitate speedy data retrieval. Moreover, storage duration of such reports 
and recording media must conform to the necessity and integrity as prescribed under the 
accounting laws. 
Scope 
The Bank of Thailand considers establishing minimu m data standards for 
five operating systems as follows: 
1. Deposit and overdraft system - Call deposit and overdraft, saving 
deposit, and term deposit 
2. Credit system - Loan, draft, etc. 
3. Foreign business system - Foreign exchange system (spot or fo rward 
contract), money market system (lending or investment in money market), lending and 
obligations pertaining to imported and exported goods (opening letter of credit, cashing 
out bill of exchange, export loan, export guarantee) 
4. Matching transaction and future obligation systems – Bill for collection, 
endorsement, bank aval, guarantee, etc. 
5. Accounting system 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/2- 
Detailed information about various operating systems 
The customer data that all operating systems should have are described 
under the first topic and specific information of each operating system is described under 
the following topics: 
1. Customer information in all operating systems 
ID number/ account number 
Name 
Address 
Type of customer (in case of deposit or overdraft, customer type is 
indicated as required in Thor.Phor. report, Table 31; in case of foreign business, customer 
type is indicated as required in relevant Thor.Phor. report) 
Type of business (for credit granting, business type is indicated as required 
in Thor.Phor. report, Table 33) 
Details of credit line, future obligations, and credit line for forward contract 
- Type of credit line, future obligation, credit line for forward contract 
- Credit line (baht) 
- Date credit line is first granted 
- Due date 
- Interest/ discount rate 
- Type of collateral 
- Appraised value of collateral (if deposit is put up as collateral, indicate 
account number and amount) 
- Collateral appraisal date 
- Credit line for mortgage/ pledge/ guarantee 
Credit rating (bad debt/ doubtful debt/ below standard) 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/3- 
2. Deposit and overdraft systems 
Account number 
Type of account (saving deposit, call deposit, term deposit; these may be 
summed under an account number) 
Account status (movement, no movement, frozen) 
Account opening date 
ATM/ POS/ credit card password 
Cheque number of cheque paid to customer 
Currency (foreign currency) 
Account balance (available for withdrawal) 
Frozen amount 
Account freezing reason 
Frozen amount due to cheque deposit for collection 
Frozen amount due to collection of cheque deposit on the previous 
business day 
Interest rate 
Accrued interest receivable/ payable 
Date of the last interest calculation 
Date of the last account movement 
Date of the last overdraft 
Details of account balance of term deposit 
- Date of transaction that effects interest calculation 
- Sequence of deposit transaction/ deposit slip of customer account 
- Amount 
- Duration of deposit 
- Interest rate 
Details of account movement 
- Date of transaction 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/4- 
- Date of transaction that effects interest calculation 
- Description/ type of transaction 
- Cheque number (in case of cheque collection from call deposit and 
cheque withdrawal) 
- Previous outstanding balance 
- Amount of deposit/ withdrawal 
- Carried-over outstanding balance 
- Branch where transaction takes place 
- Code of staff who executes transaction 
- Code of staff who approves transaction 
3. Credit system 
Contract/bill number 
Loan date/ bill issuance date/ bill discount date 
Loan objective 
Due date/ discount period 
Payment term (number of installations and payment in each installation) 
Bill issuer 
Bill/ bill amount 
Outstanding balance (accrual) 
Interest/ discount rate 
Accrued interest 
Date of the last interest calculation 
Details of movement 
- Date of transaction 
- Date of transaction that effects interest calculation 
- Description/ type of transaction 
- Previous outstanding balance 
- Transaction amount 
- Carried-over outstanding balance 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/5- 
Details of movement 
- Date of transaction 
- Date of transaction that effects interest calculation 
- Description/ type of transaction 
- Previous outstanding balance 
- Transaction amount 
- Carried-over outstanding balance 
4. Foreign business system 
4.1 Foreign exchange system 
Name and code of financial institution or client 
Document reference number 
Transaction date 
Remittance date 
Transaction type 
Traded currency 
Traded amount 
Exchange rate 
Conversion to baht 
Relevant deposit account number opened in foreign bank 
Receipt/ remittance fee (option, collar) 
4.2 Money market system 
Name and code of financial institution 
Document reference number 
Transaction type (loan or investment) 
Transaction date/ posting date 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/6- 
Maturity date/or loan or investment period 
Currency code 
Bill 
Exchange rate 
Conversion to baht 
Interest rate 
Accrued interest receivable/payable or prepaid interest receipt/expense 
Relevant deposit account number opened in foreign bank 
Lending/ investment objective 
4.3 Credit and future obligations relating to imported and exported goods system 
Name and account number of client 
Document reference number 
Transaction date 
Document date (draft, L/C etc.) 
Due date of document (draft, L/C etc.) 
Currency code 
Amount 
Exchange rate 
Interest/ discount rate 
Accrued debt and each type of obligation 
Deposit for L/C opening 
Accrued interest receivable/payable 
Name of partner bank 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-7/7- 
Name of recipient bank/remittance bank of partner bank 
Relevant deposit account number that is opened in a foreign bank 
5. Matching transactions and other future obligation system 
Draft number/ contract number/ document number 
Name of bank that endorses/ guarantees/ issues bank aval/ etc. 
Holder of a right stipulated in endorsement/ guarantee/ aval contract 
among others 
Type of obligation 
Contractual date 
Maturity date 
Account transfer date (only bill for collection) 
Amount 
Deposit payment for endorsement/ guarantee/ bank aval etc. 
Fee 
6. Accounting system 
Account number 
Account name 
Transaction date 
Description of transaction/ relevant document number 
Previous outstanding balance 
Transaction amount (debit/ credit) 
Carried-over outstanding balance 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-8/1- 
Attachment 8 
Prevention of fraud with skimmer to steal customer data from automated teller 
machine (ATM) so as to make a fake card 
_______________________________________________________________ 
The aim is to raise awareness among commercial banks offering 
automated teller machine (ATM) services about fraud issues so that they will be more 
wary of service delivery and develop saf eguard measures to prevent potential frauds, 
thus ensuring the security of ATM services for customers, reducing adverse impacts and 
business damages, and maintaining customer confidence in e-banking services. 
Contents 
1. Fraud issues 
ATM-related frauds ha ve been growing in number and the severity of the 
problem seems to be on the rise because this type of fraud can be done easily by using 
low-cost devices and preying on customer’s naivety. Such fraud incurs not only financial 
losses to customers and banks but also erodes customer confidence in ATM services. 
A widely popular fraud scheme is the use of a small data recording device 
or skimmer that stores data in magnetic strip. Such device is installed at the card inlet of 
ATM machine before customer execute s a transaction. After a customer inserts a card, 
the data recording device will record customer data stored in the card’s magnetic strip, 
enabling the swindler to use recorded data to make a fake card. To steal password, 
normally the swindler will glance at the password behind the customer’s back while the 
customer is entering the password. The swindler may ask for help from customer or lend 
assistance in order to persuade customer to demonstrate how to use ATM. When the 
customer demonstrates and keys in h is/her password, the swindler will take note and 
memorize the password so he/she will be able to use it with a fake card. Subsequently, 
the swindler can transfer or withdraw money from the customer's account via ATM. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-8/2- 
Beside the above unscrupulous scheme, there are also other schemes, for 
example, installing a small camera on ATM to sneak a look at customer’s password, using 
a fake keyboard that can record while customer is entering the password, and tampering 
with ATM or network system linked with ATMs. 
2. Preventive measures 
2.1 Be more wary 
Commercial bank should be more wary of the problems and 
reinforce security measures for the provision of banking services through ATMs by 
considering risk level and areas where ATMs are located. The securit y measures should 
encompass the followings: 
2.1.1 Assign personnel to inspect ATMs regularly, especially ATMs 
located in fraud -prone area in order to prevent tampering or installation of swindling 
device on ATM. 
2.1.2 Establish continuous monitoring pro cedure of functional 
performance of ATMs and network system. With such information, the bank can quickly 
find out about unusual transactions and swindling opportunities. 
2.1.3 Consider installing closed -circuit televisions at ATMs, 
especially in fraud -prone area. Such CCTVs will help the bank realize any problem and 
irregularity quickly and can record fraud incident that may be used as evidence in 
prosecution against swindler. 
2.1.4 Develop problem -solving procedure, designate a team of 
specially trained personnel to quickly deal with problem analysis and resolve the 
problem. Also, report such incident to management. 
2.1.5 Maintain transaction logs and store such logs securely so they 
can be used as evidence in examination. 
2.1.6 Constantly monitor tec hnological advancement relating to 
ATM and various cards used in e -banking transaction as well as the latest fraud schemes 
so that security measures can be upgraded appropriately and effective technology for 
fraud prevention can be selected. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-8/3- 
2.2 Customer advice 
Commercial bank should provide customers useful information and 
advice either in writing or via notification so that customers can safely use banking 
services via ATMs, thereby reducing potential losses to customers and the bank. 
Customer advice should include 
2.2.1 Keep ATM card and password securely; do not reveal 
password to other person; do not write password on ATM card whatsoever; do not 
expose password while writing or not keeping password in disclosed place. The best way 
is that customer should memorize password. 
2.2.2 Advise customer in high -risk target group to change password 
immediately after receiving a new ATM card, destroy password notification document, 
and change password regularly at least every three months. 
2.2.3 Use different passwords for various types of banking service, for 
example, ATM password should not be the same as that of tele-banking. 
2.2.4 Be careful not to reveal password to other person while 
entering the password at ATM. Customer should not lend assistanc e or get help from 
stranger, especially in situation where stranger can observe while customer is entering 
password. 
2.2.5 Examine ATM before performing a transaction to see if there is 
an unusual device installed on ATM, especially at the card inlet. If a ny irregularity is 
found and there is any doubt, customer should avoid using the service there and 
promptly inform the bank that owns the ATM. Commercial bank may consider affixing a 
sign prominently to show standard procedure and usage instruction as well as advice or 
warning to suggest customers to observe irregularities before performing a transaction. 
2.2.6 Advise customer to check account balance regularly. If any 
unusual transaction is found, the bank must be notified immediately to probe the matter 
and avert a greater loss. 
2.2.7 Advise customer to keep transaction slips so they can be used 
as evidence. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-8/4- 
2.3 Complaint handling procedure 
Commercial bank should provide a channel for complaint handling 
and inform customers of the existence of su ch channel. The bank should at least post a 
contact phone number on ATMs and clearly display a contact phone number on the 
back of ATM card. Accordingly, customers can notify the bank owning ATMs or the issuing 
bank of ATM card when ATM card is seized or lost or irregular transaction is observed. 
2.4 Bank responsibilities 
When commercial bank offers deposit and withdrawal services and 
other types of service to general customers through its ATMs, it is duty of the bank to 
ensure that general customers be p rotected from any loss incurred by a third party or 
swindler. Hence, in the course of service delivery through ATMs and investigation of 
relevant error, the bank shall adhere to the Notification Re: Guidelines for Electronic Fund 
Transfer (Annex 4). In cas e of illegitimate electronic fund transfer and flawed service 
delivery where customer is not at fault, the bank shall be liable for any damage suffered 
by the customer. In addition, based on good governance principles, if customer followed 
normal procedure and lost some money to a swindling third party that used skimmer 
installed on ATM and stole data stored in magnetic strip or subsequently committed 
other deceitful act that caused damage to customer, the bank shall be liable for incurred 
loss to that customer. 
2.5 Other non-ATM cards 
Since such deceitful method may be used to commit fraud by using 
other types of card that store data in magnetic strip, such as credit and debit cards, the 
bank should implement the above safeguard measures with other types of electronic 
fund transfer services that are prone to similar deceitful act. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-9/1- 
Attachment 9 
Guidelines for prevention of an internet fraud called phishing 
_______________________________________________________________ 
To raise awareness of poten tial fraud issues among commercial banks and 
to be more wary of security in service provision as well as to develop preventive 
measures and to keep customers abreast of potential frauds, to ensure security in service 
delivery to customers, to mitigate business impacts and losses, and to maintain customer 
confidence in banking services. 
Contents 
“Phishing" is an attack in a form of fake email address (email spoofing) and 
fabrication of a fake website to lure victims or email recipients to reveal banking or 
personal data, such as credit card number, username, password, citizen ID number, or 
other personal data. 
1. Fraud issues 
Presently, fraud issues relating to phishing scheme are widespread in many 
countries and begin to spread among e-mail users in Thailand. Such incident seems to be 
on the rise because this scam can be done easily and often preys on customer’s 
gullibility, resulting in financial losses of customers and banks and affecting customer 
confidence in e-banking services. 
Reportedly, present fra ud schemes include sending deceitful e -mail to 
customer and pretending to be e -mail sent from bank by using credible heading and 
message, for example, requesting customer to confirm banking data so as to comply with 
security measure that oversees customer accounts; or notifying that customer data need 
to be updated; or notifying that customer account is being temporarily frozen and 
requesting customer to confirm personal data so customer can continue to perform 
banking transaction. At the same time, a link to fake website (hyperlink) of the bank may 
be included by stealing or illegally copying the bank’s mark, symbol, or other aspects of 
a well -known bank. Moreover, a questionnaire may be attached to fake e -mail and 
customer may be asked to fill out personal data such as credit card number, saving 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-9/2- 
account number, username, and password. After customer filled out personal data in 
fake website or questionnaire, the swindler can use such data in many illegitimate ways, 
such as transferring money; or maki ng payment to a third party via internet banking, tele -
banking, mobile banking; or making online purchase of goods and services with credit 
card. 
2. Preventive measures 
2.1 Be more wary 
Banks should be more watchful and develop security measures as 
follows: 
2.1.1 If the bank sends email to customers, it must not provide 
hyperlink to its website or questionnaire that requires customer’s personal data. 
2.1.2 Risk analysis procedure must be implemented to review high -
risk services and implement preventio n measures to avert potential risks. For instance, 
the bank offers fund transfer service that transfers money from customer account to a 
third party via internet network and such service does not require customers to notify the 
bank in writing before using the service. The bank should stipulate a suitable maximum 
transfer amount or consider using two -factor authentication 1 for high-risk service via the 
internet. 
2.1.3 Provision of monitoring procedure to regularly monitor 
transactions performed by customer s through various electronic media. This procedure 
will enable banks to quickly learn about irregular transactions and fraud opportunities. 
2.1.4 Keeping abreast of technological advancement pertaining to 
service provision and the latest fraud techniques via internet network 2 and other 
electronic media so that the information can be exploited to improve security measure 
and select effective technology to prevent fraud. 
1 This authentication technique provides greater security for internet -based services. It comprises two -stage 
authentication, including 
1. Username and password 
2. Using additional tool to supplement authentication, such as using token to create new password every time the user 
accesses to the service, or using private key stored in smart card or other tools owned by customers. 
2 Learn more information from 
- Thai Computer Emergency Response Team (ThaiCERT) http://www.thaicert.nectec.or.th 
- U.S. Anti-Phishing Working Group http://www.antiphishing.org 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-9/3- 
2.1.5 Send warning to customers about unscrupulous conduct via 
phishing by showing warning statement on website’s home page and sending notification 
letter to customers. Moreover, banks should also have procedure to inform new 
customers. 
2.1.6 Developing problem-solving procedure by designating a team 
of responsible staff trained to analyze and resolve problems quickly. Also, reporting 
procedure must be developed to keep the management informed of the situation. 
2.2 Customer advice 
Commercial bank should provide useful information and advice to 
customers in writing and ensure that c ustomers are informed so that customers can use 
e-banking services securely, thus reducing opportunities for damage to customers and the 
bank. Customer advice should include 
2.2.1 Informing customers that the bank does not have the 
following service policies: 
(1) Sending e -mail to customers with hyperlink to bank 
website. 
(2) Inquiring personal and financial data, such as username, 
password, and credit card number, via e -mail and other channels like telephone and 
letter. 
2.2.2 Advise customers to type website address (URL) by 
themselves when accessing to the bank’s internet network. Never use hyperlink in e -mail 
to link to the website. 
2.2.3 Advise customers to review accuracy of transactional details, 
such as amount, transaction date, and account numb er, and check account balance 
regularly to prevent abnormal transaction. 
2.2.4 Advise customers not to submit personal data or key banking 
data to e -mail with suspicious message, pretending it is sent from the bank. Also advise 
customers to report such incident to the bank immediately. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
-9/4- 
3. Complaint handling procedure 
Banks should provide channels for complaint handling and inform 
customers of the existence of such channel. Banks should at least provide a contact 
phone number where customers can contact in case abnormal incident or transactions 
are observed. Banks should organize training for staff dealing with complaint handling and 
ensure that they have adequate knowledge to advise customers how to use e -banking 
services properly and securely. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
Attachment 10 
Electronic Transaction Act B.E. 2544 (2001) 
_______________________________________________________________ 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
Electronic Transaction Act 
B.E. 2544 
________________ 
BHUMIBOL ADULYADEJ, REX. 
Conferred on the 2nd day of December 2001 
During the 56th year of the present reign 
His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej graciously decrees to proclaim that 
Whereas it is expedient to establish a law governing electronic transaction, 
this Act contains some provisions concerning restriction on individual rights and liberty 
whereby

Section 3. Original section/article: 50. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
of the Constitution of the Kingdom of 
Thailand, prescribes that people are conferred such rights by virtue of the statutory 
provision. 
Hence, His Majesty assents to the enactment of this act under advice and 
consent of the parliament as follows:

Section 4. Original section/article: 1. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: This Act shall be referred to as "Electronic Transaction Act B.E.2544."

Section 5. Original section/article: 2. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: This Act shall come into force within 120 days after its 
publication date in the Government Gazette.

Section 6. Original section/article: 3. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: This Act shall be enforced upon civil and commercial 
transactions conducted with electronic data, except transactions that the Royal Decree 
precludes the enforcement of this Act, in whole or in part. 
The substance under P aragraph 1 shall not have any repercussion on any 
law or regulation prescribed for consumer protection. 
This Act shall be enforced on transactions involved in state conducts as 
stipulated under Chapter 4.

Section 7. Original section/article: 4. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: In this Act, 
“Transaction” is referred to any undertaking pertaining to civil and 
commercial activities or state conducts as stipulated under Chapter. 4. 
“Electronic” is referred to applications of electronic, electrical, electro -
magnetic wave, or any other similar techniques. Such applicatio n encompasses optical or 
magnetic means or devices that are involved in such application. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
“Electronic transaction" is referred to transaction that is carried out with 
electronic means, in whole or in part. 
“Content” is referred to an account or a fact, whe ther it be alphabet, 
numeric, sound, or visual form or any other form that conveys meaning by itself or any 
means. 
“Electronic data” is referred to content that is created, transmitted, 
received, stored, or processed with electronic means, such as electron ic data exchange, 
electronic mail, telegram, teletype, or facsimile. 
“Electronic signature” is referred to alphabets, characters, numeric, voice, 
or any symbols in an electronic form that is used to supplement electronic data to 
validate relationship between individual and electronic data. The aim is to identify certain 
individual as the owner of electronic signature that is related to such electronic data and 
to confirm that such individual accepts the content in such electronic data. 
“Data system” is refe rred to data processing performed by electronic 
device so as to create, transmit, receive, store, or process electronic data. 
“Electronic data exchange” is referred to transmission or receipt of 
contents with electronic means between computers based on pre-determined standards. 
“Data sender” is referred to a person who sends or creates electronic data 
before saving such data for further delivery with a method determined by that person. In 
this regard, such person may send or create electronic data by hims elf/herself or send or 
create electronic data for himself/herself or on behalf of somebody else. However, this 
does not include intermediary of such electronic data. 
“Data receiver” is referred to a person to whom electronic data are sent 
by a sender and intended for and who receives such electronic data. However, this does 
not include intermediary of such electronic data. 
“Intermediary” is referred to a person that sends, receives, or store specific 
electronic data as well as performs other services perta ining to such electronic data on 
behalf of others. 
“Certificate” is referred to electronic data or any other records which 
validate connection between signature owner and data used in the creation of electronic 
signature. 
“Signature owner” is referred to a person who owns data used in the 
creation of electronic signature and creates such electronic signature for himself/herself 
or on behalf of other person. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
“Related party” is referred to a party that may pursue any action relating 
to electronic certificate or signature. 
“State agency” is referred to ministry, bureau, department, government 
office under other title that has the stature of department, regional administration, local 
administration, and state enterprise established under an act or a Royal Decre e. In 
addition, it is also referred to juristic person, a group of persons, or individual empowered 
to perform any state conduct. 
“Committee” is referred to an electronic transaction committee. 
“Minister” is referred to an acting minister pursuant to this Act.

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The provisions under

Section 9. Original section/article: 26. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
-31 may be 
agreed in some other ways.

Section 10. Original section/article: 6. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The prime minister shall act to serve this Act. 
Chapter 1 
Electronic transaction 
___________________

Section 11. Original section/article: 7. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Do not refuse obligations a nd statutory enforcement of any 
content only because that content is in a form of electronic data.

Section 12. Original section/article: 8. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Under the provision of

Section 13. Original section/article: 9. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, where the law prescribes that 
any conduct be done in written form, supported with documentary evidence or has 
document that may be shown, if such content is created in a form of electronic data that 
can be accessed and retrieved without having discrepancy of the meaning, it shall be 
deemed such content is prepared in written form or supported with documentary 
evidence, or has document that may be shown.

Section 14. Original section/article: 9. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where a person signs a document, it shall be deemed 
electronic data is signed if 
(1) A method is used whereby signature owner can be identified and it 
can be demonstrated that signature owner attests th at the content in electronic data 
belongs to him/her; and 
(2) Such method is a reliable one that befits the aim of creation or 
delivery of electronic data, considering circumstantial conduct or agreement between 
contractual parties. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where the law requires presentation or storage of any 
content in original condition as an original copy, if data presentation or storage is in a 
form of electronic data and meets the following criteria, it shall be deemed presentation 
and storage of original document is executed as required by the law: 
(1) Electronic data resort to a reliable method to preserve the integrity 
of such content after the creation of such content was finished; and 
(2) Such content may be shown later. 
Regarding the integrity of the co ntent according to (1), considerations shall 
be given to completeness and the fact that the content has not be modified, except 
additional endorsement or note or any change that may occur in the normal course of 
communication, storage, or where presentation of the content does not have any bearing 
on the integrity of the content. 
When scrutinizing the reliability of the method used to preserve the 
content’s integrity according to (1), all relevant circumstances and objectives pertaining to 
the creation of such content must be considered.

Section 16. Original section/article: 11. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Do not refuse to accept electronic data as evidence in legal 
proceeding only because they are electronic data. 
When weighing evidences to determine whether or how much electronic 
data are trustworthy, considerati ons shall be given to the reliability of the way or the 
method used in creation, storage, or communication of electronic data; storage features 
or means, completeness and integrity of the content; and the way or the method used 
to identify or demonstrate who data sender is as well as all relevant circumstances.

Section 17. Original section/article: 12. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Under the provision of

Section 18. Original section/article: 10. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, where the law prescribes 
storage of document or content, if any document or content is stored in a form of 
electronic data according to the following cr iteria, it shall be deemed the document or 
content is stored as required by the law: 
(1) Such electronic data can be accessed and retrieved without having 
meaning altered; 
(2) Such electronic data are stored in the same format as when they are 
created, t ransmitted, or received; or stored in a form that can correctly display the 
created, transmitted, or received content; and 
(3) Storage of the contents that indicate source, upstream, and 
downstream of electronic data as well as its delivery and receipt date and time. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
The substance under Paragraph 1 shall not be applicable to the content 
that only serves delivery and receipt of electronic data. 
State agencies responsible for storage of any document or data may 
stipulate detailed guidelines relating to sto rage of such document or data as long as they 
do not contradict or are inconsistent with the provision under this Section.

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Proposal or response in an agreement may be in a form of 
electronic data. Do not refuse statutory enforcement of an agree ment only because 
proposal or response in the agreement is in a form of electronic data.

Section 20. Original section/article: 14. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Between data sender and receiver, state of intent or remark 
may be expressed in a form of electronic data.

Section 21. Original section/article: 15. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where data are sent by any method, i t shall be deemed 
electronic data belong to the person who sends the data. 
Between data sender and receiver, it shall be deemed electronic data 
belong to data sender if electronic data are sent by 
(1) An authorized person designated to deal with electron ic data on 
behalf of the sender; or 
(2) A data system programmed by data sender or authorized person to 
operate automatically on pre-determined conditions.

Section 22. Original section/article: 16. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Data receiver may consider that electronic data belong to 
data sender and proceed accordingly if 
(1) Data receiver reasonably examines the data and observes that 
electronic data belong to data sender by using the method agreed with data sender; 
(2) Electronic data received by data receiver are created by an action of 
a person who uses a m ethod used by data sender to demonstrate that such electronic 
data belong to data sender. Accordingly, the person knows that from the relationship 
between that person and data sender or authorized person. 
The substance under Paragraph 1 shall not be applied if 
(1) At that time data receiver is informed by data sender that electronic 
data received by data receiver are not data transmitted by data sender, and at the same 
time, data receiver has enough time to examine facts as informed; or 
(2) According to Paragraph 2, when data receiver knows or should know 
that electronic data do not belong to data sender, if data receiver exercises reasonable 
caution or follows the agreed method. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check

Section 23. Original section/article: 16. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, Paragraph 1, between 
data sender and data receiver, data receiver has the right to consider that received 
electronic data are accurate in accordance with the intent of data sender and shall 
proceed accordingly, unless data receiver knows or should know that received electronic 
data have some discrepancy caused by transmission, provided that data receiver 
exercises reasonable caution or follows the agreed method.

Section 24. Original section/article: 18. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Data receiver may duly consider that each set of received 
electronic data are disparate data and may proceed based on the information in each set 
of electronic data, unless that set of electronic data is a duplicate of another set and 
data receiver knows or should know that electronic data are duplicates, if data receiver 
exercises reasonable caution or follows the agreed method.

Section 25. Original section/article: 19. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where acknowledgment of the receipt of electronic data is 
required, whether data sender previously requested or agreed with data receiver or the 
request is notified when electronic data are being transmitted or shown in elec tronic 
data, the following criteria shall be applied: 
(1) Where data sender does not agree on the acknowledgment of the 
receipt of electronic data with any specific format or method, receipt confirmation may 
be done via communication from data receiver, whether it be done with automatic data 
system or other method or any action undertaken by data receiver, in order to 
adequately inform data sender that data receiver already received such electronic data. 
(2) Where data sender stipulates conditions that t ransmission of 
electronic data shall be recognized only when data sender receives acknowledgment 
from data receiver, it shall be deemed electronic data have not been delivered until data 
sender received a reply message. 
(3) Where data sender does not stip ulate conditions as in (2) and data 
sender does not receive acknowledgment within stipulated or agreed or sufficient period 
of time in the event time constraint is not stipulated or agreed. 
(a) Data sender may send a message to inform data receiver, 
stating he/she still does not receive receipt acknowledgment, and stipulate a reasonable 
time period allowed for data receiver’s acknowledgment; and 
(b) If data sender does not receive acknowledgment within the 
stipulated period as stated in (a), when data s ender informs data receiver, data sender 
shall consider electronic data have not been sent or data sender may exercise other 
rights that he/she may have. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check

Section 26. Original section/article: 20. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where data sender receives acknowledgment from data 
receiver, it shall be assumed that dat a receiver already received relevant electronic data. 
However, such presumption does not mean electronic data received by data receiver are 
accurate, compared to electronic data sent by data sender.

Section 27. Original section/article: 21. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: In acknowledgment of the receipt of electron ic data, where it 
appears that electronic data received by data receiver conform to technical specification 
as agreed by data sender and receiver or stipulated in applicable standards, it shall be 
assumed that transmitted electronic data conform to technical specifications entirely.

Section 28. Original section/article: 22. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Regarding transmission of electronic data, it shall be deemed 
electronic data have been transmitted once electronic data entered into the data system 
that is not under control of data sender.

Section 29. Original section/article: 23. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Regarding r eceipt of electronic data, it shall be deemed 
electronic data have been received when electronic data entered into the data system of 
data receiver. 
Where data receiver specifies information intended to be received in 
electronic data, it shall be deemed el ectronic data have been received after such 
electronic data entered into the data system as required by data receiver. However, if 
such electronic data was sent to other unspecified data system of data receiver, it shall 
be deemed electronic data have been received after electronic data were viewed from 
that data system. 
The substance in this Section shall be applied even though data system of 
data receiver is located in another location which is separate from the location where 
data receiver receives electronic data pursuant to

Section 30. Original section/article: 24. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: It shall be deemed transmission or receipt of electronic data 
takes place at the office of data sender or data receiver, whatever the case may be. 
Where data sender or receiver has several offices, the office where data 
sender or receiver is mostly involved in respect to such transaction shall be considered 
the office used for the benefits as stated in Paragraph 1. However, if it cannot be defined 
which office data sender or receiver is mostly involved in resp ect to such transaction, 
head office shall be considered the place where such electronic data are received or 
sent. 
Where the office of data sender or data receiver is not known, normal 
resident shall be considered the place where such electronic data are received or sent. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
The substance in this Section is not applicable to delivery and receipt of 
electronic data via telegram and teletype or other communication methods as stipulated 
in the Royal Decree.

Section 31. Original section/article: 25. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: It shall be assumed that any electronic transaction executed 
with a secure method as stipulated in the Royal Decree is deemed a reliable method. 
Chapter 2 
Electronic signature 
________________

Section 32. Original section/article: 26. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Electronic signature that meets the following criteria shall be 
considered a trustworthy electronic signature. 
(1) Under application circumstance, information used in the creation of 
electronic signature is linked to signature owner, without any connection to other person. 
(2) While electronic signature is being created, information used i n the 
creation of electronic signature is under control of signature owner, without any control 
by other person. 
(3) Any change in electronic signature from the time of its creation can 
be examined. 
(4) Where the law stipulates that electronic signature certifies 
completeness and integrity of the content. Any change to the message can be examined 
from the time electronic signature is applied. 
The provision under Paragraph 1 does not constitute limitation that there 
is no other method to demonstrate whether electronic signature is trustworthy or there is 
no other evidence concerning trustworthiness of electronic signature.

Section 33. Original section/article: 27. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where information is used in creation of electronic signature 
that is legally binding, signature owner shall take the following actions: 
(1) Exercise reasonable caution to prevent unauthorized usage of the 
information in creation of electronic signature. 
(2) Inform without delay the person who is believed, on reasonable 
ground, to perform any act that depends on electronic signature or provide service 
relating to electronic signature when: 
(a) Signature owner knows or should know that information 
required for the creation of electronic signature is lost, ruined, tampered, disclosed 
illegitimately, or known, not in accord with the objectives. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
(b) Based on known circumstance, signature owner is aware that 
the circumstance poses a high risk, indicating that information required for creation of 
electronic signature is lost, ruined, tampered, disclosed illegitimately, or known, not in 
accord with the objectives. 
(3) Where a certificate is issued to supplement electronic signature, 
reasonable caution shall be exercised to ensure correctness and completeness of all 
substances which are performed by signature owner throughout the effective period of 
the certificate or pursuant to prescription in the certificate.

Section 34. Original section/article: 28. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where a service provider issues a certificate to supplement 
electronic signature, the certificate shall be legally binding as if the signature is written. 
The service provider that issues the certificate shall perform the followings: 
(1) Adhere to its policies and guidelines that have been declared. 
(2) Exercise reasonable caution to ensure correctness and completeness 
of all substances which are performed by the service provider throughout the effective 
period of the certificate or pursuant to prescription in the certificate. 
(3) Provide reasonable access methods to allow concerned 
counterparties to examine the facts of all substances shown in the certificate, including 
(a) Indication of the service provider that issues the certificate; 
(b) Signature owner indicated in the certificate exercises control of 
the usage of information used in creation of electronic signature when the certificate is 
issued; 
(c) Information used in creation of electronic signature is effective 
during or before issuance of the certificate. 
(4) Provide reasonable access methods to concerned counterparties so 
that they can examine the followings in the certificate or by other means. 
(a) Method used to identify signature owner; 
(b) Limitations relating to objectives and values of the utilization of 
information in creation of electronic signature or certificate. 
(c) Information used in creation of electronic signature is valid and 
is not lost, ruined, amended, disclosed illegitimately or known, not in accord with the 
objectives; 
(d) Limitations on the scope of liabilities as indicated by the service 
provider that issues the certificate; 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
(e) Having methods where signature owner can send notification 
when there are incidents pursuant to

Section 35. Original section/article: 27. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
(2); 
(f) Providing service for timely revocation of the certificate. 
(5) Where services under (4) (e) are provided, notification methods shall 
be provided to signature owner who can notif y pursuant to the criteria under

Section 36. Original section/article: 27. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
(2). Also, where service under (4) (f) is provided, such service must be able to revoke the 
certificate in timely manner. 
(6) Deploy reliable system, method, personnel in service provision.

Section 37. Original section/article: 29. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: When cons idering the reliability of system, method, and 
personnel pursuant to

Section 38. Original section/article: 28. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
(6), the following aspects shall be considered: 
(1) Financial standing, personnel, and existing assets; 
(2) Quality of hardware and software; 
(3) Issuance method of certific ate, certificate application, and storage of 
service data; 
(4) Disclose information concerning signature owner indicated in the 
certificate and persons expected to be counterparties; 
(5) Frequency and scope of the audit which shall be conducted by 
independent auditor; 
(6) Certifying body or service provider that issues the certificate relating 
to the practices or the existence of the elements under (1) to (5); 
(7) Any other cases which may be stipulated by the committee.

Section 39. Original section/article: 30. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Relevant counterparties shall perform the followings: 
(1) Reasonably examine trustworthiness of electronic signature; 
(2) Where electronic signature has a certificate, the following actions 
shall be duly performed: 
(a) Check for completeness, suspension, and revocation o f the 
certificate; 
(b) Adhere to any limitation pertaining to the certificate.

Section 40. Original section/article: 31. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The certificate or electronic signature is deemed legally 
binding without having to consider: 
(1) Place where the certificate was issued or place where electronic 
signature was created or used; or 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
(2) Office of certificate issuer or owner of electronic signature. 
Certificate issued in other country shall be legally binding pursuant to 
local laws similar to certificate issued in the country, provided that the issua nce of such 
certificate utilizes a reliable system that is not less reliable than the stipulation under this 
Act. 
Electronic signature created or used in other country shall be legally 
binding pursuant to local laws, similar to electronic signature create d or used in the 
country, provided that creation or usage of such electronic signature utilizes a reliable 
system that is not less reliable than the stipulation under this Act. 
When determining which certificate or electronic signature is reliable 
according to Paragraph 2 and 3, international standards and other relevant factors shall 
be considered. 
Chapter 3 
Service business relating to electronic transaction 
____________________

Section 41. Original section/article: 32. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: An individual has the right to operate service business relati ng 
to electronic transaction only for undertakings that preserve financial and commercial 
securities, or for the benefits in enhancing credibility and acceptance of electronic data 
system, or for safeguarding against damages on general public. Hence, enact ed Royal 
Decree shall stipulate which service business relating to electronic transaction is required 
to notify the authority before obtaining business registration or required to obtain 
operating license beforehand. 
Accordingly, when stipulating which cas e must be notified, registered, or 
obtain license beforehand according to Paragraph 1, prevention of damages in 
accordance with the level of severity of potential impacts on such business operation 
shall be considered where appropriate. 
In this regard, a s tate agency may be designated as a supervisory body 
under the Royal Decree. 
Before proposing enactment of the Royal Decree according to Paragraph 1, 
public hearing shall be organized where appropriate and deliberation should be based on 
the findings of such public hearing.

Section 42. Original section/article: 33. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where the Royal Decree stipulates which service business 
relating to electronic transaction is the business that must notify the authority or obtain 
registration, the person who intends to operate such business shall notify or have the 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
business registered with the official stipulated under the Royal Decree prior to business 
start-up. 
The guidelines and methods used for notification or registration according 
to Paragraph 1 shall comply with the provisions of the Royal Decree. When the official 
performing duties under the mandate of the Royal Decree is notified or receives the filing 
of registration application, receipt of notification or registration shall be issued as 
evidence on the notification or registration filing date. Then, the notifier or registrant shall 
be allowed to operate such business from the notification or registration filing date. 
However, if the official performing duties under the mandate of the Royal Decree later 
finds that notification or registration fil ing is incorrect or incomplete, he/she is authorized 
to instruct the notifer or registrant to make correction or make it complete within seven 
days from the issuance date of such instruction. 
In the course of business operation, the notifer or registrant u nder 
Paragraph 1 shall comply with the guidelines prescribed in the Royal Decree and in 
accordance with the stipulation of the committee. 
If the notifer or registrant under Paragraph 1 does not make correction or 
make the notification or registration comp lete as stipulated in Paragraph 2 or commits a 
breach or fails to comply with the business operation guidelines according to Paragraph 3, 
the committee shall deliberate over punishment and impose administrative fine not 
exceeding one million baht by judgin g on severity of the offence. Where appropriate, the 
committee may order that person to take necessary action to make such correction or 
suitable amendment. 
The criteria for deliberation on administrative fine shall comply with the 
stipulation of the commi ttee. If the offender who is ordered to pay administrative fine 
refuses to pay such fine, statutory enforcement of administrative punishment governing 
public administration practices shall be applied mutatis mutandis. Moreover, if there is no 
official to oversee the execution of the order, the committee shall be authorized to file 
charge at an administrative court to execute the payment of the fine. In this regard, if the 
administrative court discerns that the imposition of the fine is legitimate, the court is 
authorized to pass a judgment and execute confiscation or freezing of properties that will 
be sold in the market to raise fund for fine payment. 
In the event the offender under Paragraph 4 does not make correction 
pursuant to the committee’s order or commits the same offence again, the committee 
shall be authorized to issue an order to bar that person from engaging in such notified or 
registered business. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
SECTION34: Where the Royal Decree stipulates that business operation 
relating to electronic trans action is considered a business that requires an operating 
license, any person intending to operate such business shall file a license application with 
the official stipulated under the Royal Decree. 
Qualifications of the applicant, criteria and filing of license application, 
issuance of the license, and renewal and return of the license as well as suspension or 
revocation of the license shall adhere to the guidelines stipulated under the Royal 
Decree. 
In the course of business operation, the licensee und er Paragraph 1 shall 
comply with the guidelines prescribed in the Royal Decree, the committee’s notification, 
or the license’s conditions. 
Where the licensee commits a breach or fails to comply with the 
guidelines of business operations relating to electr onic transaction pursuant to Paragraph 
3, the committee shall deliberate over punishment to impose administrative fine not 
exceeding two million baht by judging on the severity of such offence. Where 
appropriate, the committee may order that person to unde rtake any action to make 
correction or make suitable modification. In this regard, the substance under

Section 43. Original section/article: 33. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, 
Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis. 
If the offender under Paragraph 4 fails to make correction in accordance 
with the committee's order or commits the same offence again, the committee shall be 
authorized to issue an order to revoke the license. 
Chapter 4 
Electronic transaction in the state sector 
___________________

Section 44. Original section/article: 35. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: If application, approval, registration, administrative order, 
payment, and any notification or legal undertaking imposed on state agency or by state 
agency is executed in a form of electronic data pursuant to the guidelines and methods 
prescribed by the Royal Decree, the Royal Decree shall be enforced and leg ally binding, 
similar to any undertaking pursuant to the guidelines and methods prescribed under 
relevant laws. However, the Royal Decree may mandate that concerned person take 
certain action or refrain from any action or that state agency issue regulation to stipulate 
minor details in some cases. 
When enacting the Royal Decree under Paragraph 1, the Royal Decree may 
stipulate that operator of service business relating to electronic transaction notify the 
authority, obtain registration, or acquire the lice nse, whatever the case may be, before 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
business start-up. In this case, the provision under Chapter 3 and relevant penal provision 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis. 
Chapter 5 
Electronic transaction committee 
__________________

Section 45. Original section/article: 36. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: An electronic tr ansaction committee shall be established and 
chaired by the minister of the Ministry of Science, Technology, and Environment and 
comprise 12 cabinet-appointed committee members that shall be selected from a group 
of qualified persons through nomination pro cess. Among them, two qualified persons 
must be keen in each of the following disciplines: 
(1) Finance 
(2) E-commerce 
(3) Law 
(4) Computer technology 
(5) Science or engineering 
(6) Social sciences 
Each qualified person from each discipline shall co me from the private 
sector. Moreover, the director of the National Electronics and Computer Technology 
Center, the Office of the National Science and Technology Development Agency shall 
also be appointed as committee member and secretary. 
The criteria and nomination method and appointment of suitable persons 
by the cabinet to form a committee under Paragraph 1 shall comply with the regulation 
as prescribed by the minister. 
The secretary can appoint no more than two assistant secretaries.

Section 46. Original section/article: 37. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The e lectronic transaction committee is incumbent on the 
following duties: 
(1) Recommend the cabinet on policies to promote and develop 
electronic transaction as well as resolution on problems and pertinent obstacles. 
(2) Monitor the conduct of business op eration relating to electronic 
transaction. 
(3) Offer advice or consultation to the minister on enactment of the 
Royal Decree under this Act. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
(4) Issue regulation or notification governing electronic signature 
pursuant to this Act or Royal Decree under this Act. 
(5) Pursue actions in compliance with this Act or other laws. 
To pursue actions pursuant to this Act, the committee shall be designated 
as the official as stipulated under the Criminal Code.

Section 47. Original section/article: 38. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Competent committee member shall have thr ee-year tenure. 
Committee member who vacates the office may be re -appointed, but he/she may not 
hold the office for two consecutive terms.

Section 48. Original section/article: 39. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Apart from the vacation of the office upon the expiry of 
his/her term pursuant to

Section 49. Original section/article: 38. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, competent committee member shall vacate the 
office upon 
(1) Death; 
(2) Resignation; 
(3) The cabinet relieves committee member of the duties because 
misconduct, deficiency, dishonesty, or inefficiency; 
(4) Being incompetent or quasi-incompetent; 
(5) Being impri soned by a final judgment, except punishment for 
negligence or misdemeanor.

Section 50. Original section/article: 40. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Where competent committee member vacates the office 
pursuant to

Section 51. Original section/article: 39. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, it shall be deemed the committee comprises the remaining 
number of members and the committe e shall proceed with the appointment of a new 
committee member within 60 days from the date the committee member vacates the 
office. 
In this regard, the new committee member who takes over the vacated 
office shall serve the remaining term of the substituted member.

Section 52. Original section/article: 41. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: At committee meeting, no less than half of the total number 
of committee members shall constitute a quorum. 
If the chairman does not attend meeting or is unable to perform duties, 
the committee shall select a committee member to act as a chairman. 
Resolution of the committee shall be decided with a majority of vote. 
Each member has one vote. In case of a tie, the chairman shall cast an extra vote as a 
deciding vote. 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check

Section 53. Original section/article: 42. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The committee shall be authorized to appoint sub-committee 
to deliberate or perform any task as assigned by the committee. 
The substance under

Section 54. Original section/article: 41. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
shall be applied to meeting of sub -
committee mutatis mutandis.

Section 55. Original section/article: 43. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: The National Electronics and Computer Technology Center, 
the Office of National Science and Technology Agency shall be responsible for the 
administrative functions of the committee. 
Chapter 6 
Penal provision 
_________________

Section 56. Original section/article: 44. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Any person who operates service business relating to 
electronic transaction and fails to notify or register the business with the official as 
stipulated under the Royal Decree pursuant to

Section 57. Original section/article: 33. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, Paragraph 1; or violates the 
business operation restriction order of the committee pursuant to

Section 58. Original section/article: 33. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
, Paragraph 6 
shall be punished with imprisonme nt for a term not exceeding one year or a fine not 
exceeding 100,000 baht or both.

Section 59. Original section/article: 45. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Any person who operates service business relating to 
electronic transaction without an operating license pursuant to

Section 60. Original section/article: 34. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
shall be 
punished with imprisonme nt for a term not exceeding two year or a fine not exceeding 
200,000 baht or both.

Section 61. Original section/article: 46. Source: Electronic Transactions Act B.E. 2544 (2001).
: Regarding offence pursuant to this Act which is committed by 
a juristic person, manager, representative of the juristic person, or any person participating 
in business operation of the juristic person shall be punished likewise, unless it is proven 
that he/she is unaware or does not collude in such offence. 
Countersigned by 
Pol.Lt.Col. Thaksin Shinawatra 
Prime Minister 
Note:- The reason for the pr omulgation of this Act is as follows: Presently, when 
transactions are executed, there is a trend towards the adoption of communication 
modes which depend on development of electronic technologies which are convenient, 
speedy, and efficient. However, since such electronic transactions are vastly different 
from traditional transactions which are under the realm of the existing laws. 
Consequently, it is necessary to recognize the legal status of electronic data similar to the 
BOT Notification No 26-2551 (6 September 2017)-check 
treatment of document or document ary evidence. In the course of acceptance of 
delivery and receipt modes of electronic data, usage of electronic signature, and 
acceptance of electronic data as admissible evidence so as to promote electronic 
transaction’s trustworthiness and statutory enfo rcement, it is expedient to establish an 
electronic transaction committee that is mandated to formulate policies that stipulate 
guidelines on promotion of electronic transaction, monitoring of business operation 
relating to electronic transaction. Moreover , the committee is also incumbent on 
promotion of technological development to keep pace with dynamic technological 
advancement and constant development of potential technological capacity in order to 
establish credible standards. Furthermore, the committe e is also designated to offer 
advice on how to resolve issues and overcome pertinent obstacles. To promote domestic 
and international electronic transactions, it is thereby expedient to promulgate an 
exclusive law that conforms to acceptable international standards and to enact this Act. 
Disclaimer: The Association of International Banks, its directors, members and employees take no responsibility, accept 
no liability from any use or misuse of the information in these pages and do not attest to the corr ectness of the 
translation, if any. This translation contains privileged information. It is intended for the named recipients only. No 
portion of this translation may be transmitted by any means without prior written permission from the Association of 
International Banks. All rights reserved.
