Thailand source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017)
Category: Labour and immigration
Source URL: https://www.doe.go.th/prd/assets/upload/files/sukhothai_th/928cb9d2c6e07cd3e5812a43993a0fdd.pdf
Note: ILO NATLEX record for foreign-worker management legislation.

Section 1. Original section/article: 43. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
of the Constitution of the Kingdom of
Thailand, so perrnit by virtue of law;
Be it, therefore, enacted by the King, by and with the advice and
consent of the National Assembly, os follows:

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
This Act is called the o'Working of Alien Acto B.E. 2551".

Section 3. Original section/article: 2. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
This Act shall come into foree as from the day following
the date of its publication in the Government Gazette.l

Section 4. Original section/article: 3. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The followings shall be repealed:
(l) Working of Alien Act, B.E. 2521;
(2) Working of Alien Act (No. 2), B.E. 2544.

Section 5. Original section/article: 4. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
This Act shall not apply to the performance of specific
duties by the alien in the Kingdom in the following capacities:
(l) as a member of a diplomatic mission;
(2) as a member of a consular mission;
(3) as a representative of member countries and official of the United
Nations and specialised institutions;
(a) as a personal servant coming from foreign countries to work
regularly for the person under (l) or (2) or (3);
(5) as a person who performs duties or missions in accordance with
agreements between the Government of Thailand and foreign government or
international organisation;
(6) as a person who performs duties or mission for the benefit of
education, culture, dft, sports or other activities as may be prescribed by the Royal
Decree;
(7) as a person permitted, with or without any condition, by the
Council of Ministers to enter and perfonn any dug or mission.
tPublished in the Government Gazette, Vol. 125,Paft37 Kor,dated 22nd February 8.E.2551 (2003).
@ 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunf Oftice ofthe Council of Starc t,lrru:rr:rldi.kggrrlr, wulawrefonn*go.th)
Remerk: Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigrrers.
2

Section 6. Original section/article: 5. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In this Act:
"Alien" means a natural person who is not of Thai nationality;
"work" means engaging in work by exerting energy or using
knowledge whether or not in consideration of wages or other benefits;
"Permit" means a work permit;
"Holder of permit" means an alien who has been granted a permit;
"Employee" means the holder of permit under

Section 7. Original section/article: 14. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
who has been granted to engage in work as
prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation issued under

Section 8. Original section/article: 15. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
;
"Fund" means the Alien Repatriation Fund
"Board" means the Board of Alien Repatriation Fund;
"committee" means the commiuee considering working of Alien;
"Appeal Committee" means the Committee Considering Appeal on
Working of Alien;
execution of .ii;ffttt:' 
official" means a person appointed by the Minister' for the
''Registrar" means the Director-General and the competent official
appointed by the Minister upon reconunendation of the Director-General so as to
grant permit and to perform other duties under this Act;
'Director-General" means the Director-General of the Department of
Employment; ('Minister" means the Minister having charge and control of the
execution of this Act.

Section 9. Original section/article: 6. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Minister of Labour shall have charge and control of
the execution of this Act and shall have the power to issue Ministerial Regulations
prescribing fees not exceeding the rate hereto attached, granting exemptions from fees
and prescribing other acts for the execution of this Act.
Such Ministerial Regulations shall come into force upon their
publications in the Government Gazette.
CHAPTER I
Working of Alien
Part I
General Provisions

Section 10. Original section/article: 7. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The work that may be engaged by alien as well as
working area and period shall be prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation. In the
issuance of such Ministerial Regulation, regard shall be had to national security,
occupation opporfunity of Thais and demand for alien labour as necessary for the
development of the country. The matters to be prescribed may be different between
generar arien "fr,liflfff"::tliT##TiJ",',li?iii; appry to the working or
aliens under

Section 11. Original section/article: 12. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunl Oftice of the Council of State (rvr.;r'i, krrsdika.Sgi| $'\Uawre&U_S9lh)
Remrrk Referencc to Thai lcgislation in any junsdiction shall be madc to the Thai version only. This banslation has been made
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
3

Section 12. Original section/article: 8. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In order to limit the number of aliens other than skilled
workers or experts to engage in specific categories of works or in works with specific
nature in the Kingdom, the Minister mi{o with approval of the Council of Ministers,
impose by notiffing in the Government Gazette the levy for hiring of aliens other than
skilled workers or experts to engage in specific categories of works or in works with
specific nature in the Kingdom.
Whoever desires to engage the alien under paragraph one shall notifu
the registrar in the form as specified by the Director-General and shall pay the levy at
least three days prior to the date of hired contract.
Whoever fails to comply with the provisions under paragraph two shall
be liable to surcharge at the rate of one-time of the levy to be paid.
Part2
Work Permit

Section 13. Original section/article: 9. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
No alien shall engage in any work other than the works
under

Section 14. Original section/article: 7. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
and the permit shall be granted by the registrar, except for the alien
who enters into the Kingdom temporarily under the law on immigration so as to
engage in necessary and urgent work for a period of not exceeding fifteen days and
that alien may engage in that work after giving written notification to the registrar.
In the issuance of the permit, the registar may impose any conditions
to be complied.*irh by the alien.
lhe permiL the application for and the issuance of the permit and the
giving of notification under paragraph one shall be in accordance with the form and
procedure as prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation.
thecondirions"Hffi $;?'ffi"1"T:'",1:lrfi :ffi,,h"0i:til?:;f;:"'cribingof

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The alien who is eligible for the permit under

Section 16. Original section/article: 9. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall have the place of residence in the Kingdom or has been permitted to enter into
the Kingdom temporarily under the law on immigration in any status other than
tourists or transit passenger and shall not have any prohibitions as prescribed by the
Ministerial Regulation.

Section 17. Original section/article: 11. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
Whoever desires to engage an alien living abroad to
work for his business in the Kingdom may apply for the permit and pay fee on behalf
ofthatalien' , F .r i , r^ r.r
onesharbe,rffi'Jlffi':Lfi 'l;"Tffi ffi ,?'f ft:ffi #'e"*",f; ill'Ti
Regulation.

Section 18. Original section/article: 12. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In granting of permission to any alien to engage in work
in the Kingdom under the law on investment promotion or other laws, the authority
who grants permission under such law shall without delay notify the granting of that
permission in writing to the registrar together with other details as specified by the
Director-Generel.
lhe registrar shall, after receiving the notification under paragraph
one, issue the permit to that alien within seven days as from the date of receiving of
such notification.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt, Office of the Council of State tlUrukrudi&a.gO-tlt, u'''uuJ.twt9{brtTt eo.-th)
Rcmgrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been madc
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
4
While awaiting fbr the permit under paragraph two, that alien may
engage in work without regard to section24 until the date of receiving of the permit
as notified by the registrar.

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The alien who is not eligible for the permit under

Section 20. Original section/article: 9. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
on account of the following grounds may apply to the registrar for the
permit to engage in the works as notified in the Government Gazette by the Council
of Ministers according to the recommendation of the Committee with due regard to
national security and social impact:
(l) being deported under the law on deportation, but he is allowed to
work at any place in lieu of deportation or while awaiting for deportation;
(2) having immigrated into or stayed in the Kingdom without
permission under '*re law on immigration, but he is allowed to stay in the Kingdom
temporarily while awaiting for deportation under the law on immigration;
(3) being lost of nationality by the provisions of the Announcement of
the National Executive Council No. 337, dated l3h December B.E. 2515 or by other
laws;
(4) born in the Kingdom but not entitling to Thai nationality by the
provisions of the Announcement of the National Executive Council No. 337, dated
13e December B.E. 2515;
provision, "f *glffT"T"'l:5il:dom 
but not entitlins to rhai nationalitv bv the
The Council of Ministers may impose any condition in the Notification
under paragraph one.
Ihe application for and the granting of the permit under paragraph one
shall be in accordance with the procedure as prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation.

Section 21. Original section/article: 14. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The alien having place of residence in, and being of
nationalify of, the country having common boundary with Thailand who enters into
the Kingdom with travel document under the law on immigration may be permitted to
engage in specific categories of works or in works with specific nature in the
Kingdom temporarily through the specified period or season within the area which is
adjacent to boundary or the area which is contiguous therewith.
An alien who desires to engage in the work under paragaph one shall
submit the application, together with havel documenl for temporary work permit to
the registrar and shall pay fee in the amount as prescribed by the Ministerial
Regulation.
In granting of the permit, the registrar shall speciff the permitted
working area or work place, working period, category or nature of work and the
employer to work with in accordance with the form and procedure as prescribed by
the Ministerial Regulation.
fhe provisions of this section may come into force in any area, to the
alien of any nationality, for any category or nature of work, during any period or
season and with any condition upon the Notification of the Council of Ministers as
prescribed in the Government Gazette.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt Office of the Council of State irrrvr,r,krrsdiks go.lli r\irrV,.larwelbrtn so th1
Remrrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as to establish correct undersEnding about this Act to the foreigners.
5

Section 22. Original section/article: 15. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The employee with the permit issued under

Section 23. Original section/article: 14. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, particularly to the work as
prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation, shall remit money to the Fund as security for
repatriation of that employee and the employer shall have the duty to deduct salary of
that employee and remit the deducted money to the Fund.
The amount of money to be remiffed to the Fund, the deduotion of
salary and the remittance of the deducted money to the Fund under paragraph one
shall be in accordance with the rules, procedure, period and rate as specified by the
Ministerial Regulation. The prescribed amount and rate may be different for the
employees of different nationalities with due regard to the cost of repatriation of the
employee of each nationality. 
^ .Ihe provisions of paragraph one shall not apply to the employee
having the receipt issued under

Section 24. Original section/article: 16. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph one showing that he complotely
paid to the Fund or having the certificate issued under

Section 25. Original section/article: 16. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph two and
the employee who has shown in the evidence of the registrar that he completely paid
to the Fund, particularly to the employee whose money has not yet returned'under
section l8 or who has not been repafiiated.

Section 26. Original section/article: 16. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, When the employer remits deducted salary of any
employee to the Ftmd, the registrar shall issue the receipt to the employer. Such
receip shall at least speciry name and identification number of the employee whose
salary has been deducted and remitted to the Fund and the unpaid amount. The
employer shall then deliver the receip to the employee as evidence.
In the case where the salary of the employee has been deducted so as to
remit to the Fund completely, the employer shall issue the sertificate thereon to that
employee as evidence.
If the certificate issued under paragraph trpo is lost or damaged, the
employee mayleguest the registrar for the substitr,rtion thereof.
Ihe issuance of the receipt under pamgraph one and the certificate
under paragraph two and the issuanoe of the substitution under paragraph three shall
be in accordance with the form, rules and procedure as prescribed bt the Ministerial
Regulation.

Section 27. Original section/article: 1. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
?. The employer *h" fails to remit the deducted salary
under

Section 28. Original section/article: 15. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
to the Fund or remit an incomplete amount shall be liable to
surcharge at the rate of two per cent per month of the unremitted or incomplete
amount thereof.

Section 29. Original section/article: 18. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The employee who departs the Kingdom on his own
expense shall be entitled to claim his deducted salary which has been remitted to the
Fund. In this case, the employee may submit his request to the regisfar at the port of
enuy he has togesenoe,for his departure or posts his written claim to the regisfrar.
lhe employee shall, in making of the claim under paragraph one,
attach the evidence under

Section 30. Original section/article: 16. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph one therewith if the he has not yet paid
the Fund completely or the evidence under

Section 31. Original section/article: 16. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph two if the he has
completely paid to the Fund. , . , ilhe registrar shall return the deducted salary under paragaph one to
the employee within tttirly days as from the date of receiving the request or claim, as
the case may be. If the registrar fails to return that money to the employee within the
aforesaid period the registrar shall return that money together with interest at the rate
O200s,PalcomNilprapur4OfEccofttpCourpilofStatelglvu,knsdik'a.gg.1h. v,)vrv.lawreform.go.th)
Rcmrrk Rcforsnco to Thii legislcion in any juisdiction shall bc madc to the Thai vcrsion only. This ranslation has bccn madc
so as to establish correct under*ardfu€ sbout Uris act to the forcigrcrs.
6
of seven point five per cent per annum since the expiration of the aforesaid period
through the date the registrar returns that money to the employee.
The return of deducted salary and interest thereof under this section
may be made in cash or cheque speciffing the name of the employee or by
transferring that money to the account of the employee in accordance with the rules as
prescribed by the Director-General.

Section 32. Original section/article: 19. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
If the employee who departs the Kingdom on his own
expense fails, within two years as from the date he departs the Kingdom, to claim for
his deducted salary remitted to the Fund under

Section 33. Original section/article: 18. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, his right to claim for that
money shall be terminated and that money shall devolve on the Fund.
Within two years as from the departing date, if the employee under
paragraph one enters into the Kingdom and engages in the work as specified in the
permit which is still valid or engages in the work as specified in the new permit and
that work has been prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation enacted under

Section 34. Original section/article: 15. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
,
as the case may be, that employee shall be exempted from deduction of salary so as to
remit to the Fund, except where the deducted salary which is remitted to the Fund of
that employee has not yet completed, the employer shall deduct salary of that
employee so as to remit to the Fund until the completion thereof.

Section 35. Original section/article: 20. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
If the employee has to be repatriated, the Fund shall
provide money for the expense of repatriation of that employee.
In the case where the money remitted to the Fund of the employee to
be repatriated has not yet completed, the Fund shall provide only for the deficient
except where the employee engages in .work in the Kingdom on demand of the
employer, that employer shall be liable to the deficient and the Fund shall collect the
deficient from that employer.

Section 36. Original section/article: 21. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The permit granted under this Act shall be valid for not
exceeding two years as from its granting date, except the permit which is granted to
the alien under

Section 37. Original section/article: 12. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be valid through the period he has been permitted to
work under such law.
fhe period of the permit under paragraph one shall not extend the
period to stay in the Kingdom under the law on immigration.

Section 38. Original section/article: 22. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In the case where the period of work of the holder of
permit under

Section 39. Original section/article: 12. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
has been extended under such law, the licensor under such
law shall notify the extension of that period in writing to the registrar in accordance
with the form as specified by the Director-General as soon as possible and the
registrar shall file that extension in the permit.

Section 40. Original section/article: 23. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
Prior to the expiry date of the permit, if the holder of
permit desires to continue engaging in that work, he shall apply for the renewal of that
permit to the regisffar.
Upon submission of the application under paragraph one, the applicant
may engage in that work until the regishar refuses the renewal.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapun! Office of the Council of State trr!.u-tru.-drk4gq-1lr lrurlllrcfo!!-Sa-lh)
Remrrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This Fanslation has been made
so as to cstablish correct undersanding about this Act to the foreigners.
7
sharbemade*:J:1"*:i,:x$:'*:Y'l'LT:;}.;'ifr #:"T,TiiiiH"lf Xi
Kingdom. In the case of the alien under

Section 41. Original section/article: 13. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
(l) and (Z),the consocutive period
of work to be renewed shall not exceed four years, except where otherwise prescribed
by the Councilof Ministers occasionally. 6 1Ihe application for and the granting of renewal shall be in accordance
with the rules and procedure as prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation.

Section 42. Original section/article: 24. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
A holder of permit shall keep the permit on himself or
at the place of work during work in order that it may be readily shown to the
competent official or registrar.

Section 43. Original section/article: 25. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
If the permit is lost or damaged, a holder of permit shall
apply for its substitution to the registrar within fifteen days as from the date that loss
or damage has Fo* to him.
the application for and the granting of the substitution of the permit
shall be in accordance with the rules and procedure as prescribed by the Ministerial
Regulation.

Section 44. Original section/article: 26. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
A holder of permit shall engage in work of the category
or nature and with the employer and at the area or place and conditions as permitted.
fhe holder of permit who desires to change or add category or nature
of work, employer, workingareaor workplace or conditions shall be permitted by the
registrar' 
- r. - t.i ^.t , ,the application for and the granting of the permission shall be in
accordance with the rules and procedure as prescribed by the Ministerial Regulation.

Section 45. Original section/article: 27. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
No person shall engage an alien to work for him other
than the holder of permit and in the work of the category or nature and at the working
area or work place as specified in the permit.

Section 46. Original section/article: 28. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
If the holder of permit violates or fails to comply with
the specified conditions, the registrar shall have the power to revoke the permit.
CHAPTER II
Alien Repatriation Fund

Section 47. Original section/article: 29. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
There shall be established the fund in the Department of
Employment, oalled the "Alien Repafriation Fund", so as to be the revolving fund for
the repatriation of employee, alien and deportee abroad under this Act, the law on
immigration and the law on deportation, as the case may be.
properties:

Section 48. Original section/article: 30. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Fund shall consist of the following money and
(l) surcharge under section I paragraph three;
(2) money to be remitted to the Fund by the employer under

Section 49. Original section/article: 17. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
;
(4) money devolve on the Fund under

Section 50. Original section/article: 19. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph one;
O 2008, PakornNilprapunt, Officc of the Council of SAte (rrr.,'ra,.krjsdika.S.o.1h, tllr')lrlawrekrnn go.th)
Rcmrrk: Rcfersnce to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translafion has been made
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreignen.
8
(5) money collected from the employer under

Section 51. Original section/article: 20. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
paragraph
two;
(6) donated money or properties;
(7) fee collected under this Act as allowed by the Ministry of Finance
to spend without remitting to State's fund;
(8) fruits of the Fund;
(9) subsidy from Government under

Section 52. Original section/article: 3. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
l paragraph two.
Money and properties under paragraph one shall devolve on the Fund
without remitting to State's fund.

Section 53. Original section/article: 31. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Fund shall be paid for the following purposes:
(1) to finance expenses in relation to the repatriation of employee
under this Act;
(2) to be returned to the employee under

Section 54. Original section/article: 18. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
and to be paid for
related expenses thereof;
(3) to finance expenses in relation to the repatriation of alien under the
law on immigration;
(4) to finance expenses in relation to the deportation of deportee under
the law on deportation;
(5) to furance necessary administration cost of the Fund, but not
exceeding ten per cent of the fruits of the Fund;
(6) money of the Fund under

Section 55. Original section/article: 30. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
(7) and fruits arising therefrom
shall be paid particularly for the benefit of the concerned agencies in relation to the
administration of the working of alien.
In the case where the money of the Fund is inadequate for the expenses
under paragmph one, the Government shall from time to time pay subsidy to the Fund
as necessary.

Section 56. Original section/article: 32. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
There shall be the Board of Alien Repatriation Fund,
consisting of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Labour as Chairperson, the
Director-General of the Departrnent of Employment as Vice-Chairperson, the
Commissioner of Immigration Bureau, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign
Affaires, a representative of the Offrce of the Attorney-General, a representative of
the Bureau of the Budget, a representative of the Department of Provincial
Administration, a representative of the Comptroller General's Departrnent, a
representative of the Department of Social Development and Welfare and not more
than seven qualified persons having experience in labour, frnance, industry and law
appointed by the Minister with approval of the Council of Ministers as members.
fhe Director of the Oflice of Foreign Workers Administration shall be
member and secretary.
lhe Board may appoint not more than two officials of the Department
of Employment to be assistant secretaries.

Section 57. Original section/article: 33. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
A qualified member of the Board shall hold office for
the term of three years.
A qualified member who vacates from office may be reappointed, but
not more than two consecutive terms.
@ 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt Office of the Council of Statc 1r,,i'ivv knslUka.go !h Wiviv lawelbrrn go tll)
Remerk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as to establish correct understanding abot t this Act to trc foreigncrs.
9

Section 58. Original section/article: 34. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In addition to vacating office at the end of the term, a
qualified member of the Board vacates offrce upon:
(l) death;
(2) resignation;
(3) being bankrupt;
(4) being an incornpetent or quasi incompetent;
(5) being dismissed by the Council of Ministers due to negligent or
dishonest in the discharge of duty, disgrace behaviour or incapability;
(6) having been sentenced by a final judgment to imprisonment.

Section 59. Original section/article: 35. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The provisions on the committee having duty to conduct
administrative procedure under the law on administrative procedure shall apply to the
appointrnent of the qualified members of the Board and the meeting of the Board
mutatis mutandis.

Section 60. Original section/article: 36. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Board shall have the power to appoint its sub-
committee so a; to consider or perform any act as entrusted by the Board.
fhe provisions on the committee having duty to conduct administrative
procedure under the law on administrative procedure shall apply to the appointnent
and the meeting of the sub-committee of the Board mutatis mutandis.

Section 61. Original section/article: 37. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Board shall have the powers and duties as follows:
(1) to lay down guideline, rules, conditions and priority for spending of
the Fund for each year in accordance with the objectives of the fund;
(2) to determine rule for calculation of necessary cost in relation to the
repatriation or deportation of the employee, alien or deportee of each nationality;
(3) to consider and allocate money of the Fund for financing each
objective of the fund in accordance with the guideline and priority under (1);
(4) to consider and allocate money of the Fund to concerned agencies
as advance money for repatriation or deportation of the employeeo alien or deportee;
(5) to issue regulations relating to the receipt, spending, keeping or {
benefiting of money and internal audit of the Fund;
(6) to issue regulations relating to the rules and procedure for payment
of money of the Fund to concerned agencies for the repatriation or deportation of the
employee, alien or deportee and for payment of advance money under (4).
The determination, result of consideration and regulations under this
section shall be published in the Government Gazette.
The regulations issued under (5) and (6) shalt come into force upon
their publications in the Government Gazette.

Section 62. Original section/article: 38. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Departnent of Employment shall make and
maintain the accounting of the Fund in accordance with the accounting system of the
Ministry of Finance.

Section 63. Original section/article: 39. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Office of the Auditor-General or the independence
auditor as approved by the Office of the Auditor-General shall be auditor of the Fund.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapmt Office of the Council of State (r,,rv.ra'ki.trdrk?,gg.th, gluJiuyicfoilt&.-&)
Remrrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
t0

Section 64. Original section/article: 40. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The auditor shall report the result of the audit to the
Board for further submission to the Council of Ministers within one hundred and
twenty days as from the ending date of the accounting year, and the Departnent of
Employment shall publicise the financial statement as audited by the auditor within
fifteen days as from the date the acknowledgement of the Council of Ministers has
been given thereto.
CHAPTER In
Committee Considering Working of Alien

Section 65. Original section/article: 41. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
There shall be the Committee Considering Working of
Alien, consisting of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Labour as
Chairperson, the Secretary-General of the National Economic and Social
Development Board, the Secretary-General of the National Security Council, the
Director of the National Intelligence Agency, the Attorney-General, a representative
of the Minisfiry of Defence, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affaires, a
representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, a representative of the
Ministry of Interior, a representative of the Ministry of Public Health, a representative
of the Ministry of Industry, a representative of the Royal Thai Police, not more than
three representatives of employers' organisation, not more than three representatives
of employees' organisation and not more than four qualified persons having
experience in labour, industry and law appointed by the Minister with approval of the
Council of Ministers as members.
The Director-General shall'be member and secretary and the Director
of the Oflice of Foreign Workers Administration shall be member and assistant
secretary
The acquisition, term of office and vacation from office of the
representatives of employers' organisation and ernployees' organisation and the term
of office and vacation from oflice of the qualified members under paragraph one shall
be in accordance with the regulations determined by the Minister with approval of the
Council of Ministers and published in the Government Gazette.

Section 66. Original section/article: 42. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Committee shall have the powers and duties as
follows:
(l) to propose policy on working of alien to the Council of Ministers;
(2) n give recommendation to the Council of Ministers or the Minister
in the issuance of the Royal Decrees, Ministerial Regulations, Regulations and
Notifications under this Act;
(3) to monitor, oversee and cooperate an implementation of the
agencies concerned with the working of alien according to the policy on working of
alien laid down by the Council of Ministers;
(a) to supervise an implementation of the Department of Employment
under this Act to be in accordance with the policy on working of alien laid down by
the Council of Ministers;
(5) to perform any other duties as entrusted by the Council of
Ministers or Minister.
@ 2008, Pakom Nilpnapunl Office of the Council of State lnrvri',.knsdika gtr th "r,rr_rv larwefortn go.th)
Remark Referencc to Thai lcgislation in any jurisdiction shsll be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as tro establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
1l

Section 67. Original section/article: 43. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
At a meeting of the Committee, not less than one-half of
the total number of the members must be presented to constitute a quorum.
At a meeting of the Committee, if the Chairperson is not present at the
meeting or is unable to perform his duty, the members shall select one among
themselves to preside over at the meeting.
A decision shall be made by a majority of votes. In casting votes, each
member shall have one vote. In case of an equality of votes, the person who presides
over at the meeting shall cast an additional vote as a casing vote.

Section 68. Original section/article: 44. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Committee shall have the power to appoint its sub-
committee to perform any act as entrusted by the Committee.
lhe provisions of

Section 69. Original section/article: 43. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall apply to the meeting of the sub-
committe e mutatis mutandis,
CHAPTER IV
Committee Considering Appeal on Working of Alien

Section 70. Original section/article: 45. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
There shall be the Commiuee Considering Appeal on
Working of Alien, consisting of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Labour as
Chairpeison, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affaires, a representative of
the Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, a representative of
the Office of Attorney-General, a representative of the Department of Business
Development, a representative of the Office of the Board of Investment, a
representative of the Royal Thai Police, a representative of employers' organisationo a
representative of employees' organisation and not more than three qualified persons
appointed by the Minister as members.
Ihe Director-General shall appoint an oflioial of the Department of
Employment to be member and secretary and not more than two officials thereof as
assistant seoretaries.
fhe acquisition, term of office and vacation from office of the
representatives of employers' organisation and employees' organisation and the term
of office and vacation from oflice of the qualified members under paragraph one shall
be in accordance with the regulations determined by the Minister and published in the
Government Gazette.

Section 71. Original section/article: 46. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In the case where the registrar refuses to grant the
permit or permission under

Section 72. Original section/article: 26. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
or refuses to renew the permit under

Section 73. Original section/article: 23. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
or revokes the permit wrder

Section 74. Original section/article: 28. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the applicant or the person whose his permit has been revokedn as the case may be,
shall have the right to appeal, in writing, to the Appeal Committpe by submitting an
appeal to the registrar within thitty days as from the date the order has known to him.
The regisftar shall send the appeal together with his reasons for
refusing the granting of the permiq permission, renewal of the permit or revocation of
the permit to the Appeal Committee within seven days as from the date of receiving
the appeal, and the Appeal Committee shall give a decision thereon within thirty days
as from the date of receiving the appeal. ,.. t ,, rThe decision of the Appeal Committee shall be final.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt, Office of the Council of State (*rvw.kri.rdika.go tll. q)r.r].larvrefonn.go.th)
Rcmrrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This translation has been made
so as to establish correct undentanding about this Act to ttre foreignen.
t2
In the case of appeal on refusal order of not granting renewal of the
permit under

Section 75. Original section/article: 23. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the appellant may engage in work until the decision of the
Appeal Committee has been given.

Section 76. Original section/article: 47. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The provisions on administrative order and the
committee having duty to conduct administrative procedure under the law on
administrative procedure shall apply to the rnaking of administrative order and the
meeting of the Appeal Committee mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER V
Superuision
Director-o.".ii:[""",i1i,,#"*.,r:'f##::s.l;lT;",ng:l:"*:,,1:
follows:
( I ) to have written inquiry or summon any person to give statement
and to produce document or evidence;
(2) to enter into, for the purpose of inspection under this Act and with
warrant of the Court, any place during working hour or the period believed to have
work if there is a reasonable ground to suspect that there is an alien working in that
place illegally, except the entering between sunrise and sunset. In this case, they shall
also have the power to make an inquiry or summon any document or evidence from a
person in charge of or relate to that place.

Section 77. Original section/article: 49. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The registrar and competent oflicial shall have
identification card made in the form as specified by the Minister by publishing in the
Government Gazette.
In the performance of duties under this Act, the registrar and the
competent official shall produce identification card to related person.

Section 78. Original section/article: 50. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
In the performance of duties under this Act, the
Director-General, the registrar and the compelent oflicial shall be the competent
official under the Penal Code.
If the competent official finds the alien working without having the
permit which is in violation of this Act and he orders that alien to report at the police
station together with him but that alien fails to do so or tries to escape, the competent
official shall have the power to arrest that alien without warrant of arrest and shall
take the arrested person to the office of the inquiry official at once. In this case, the
provisions of

Section 79. Original section/article: 86. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
of the Criminal Procedure Code shall apply to the arrest under this
section mutatis mutandis.
In order to assist the inquiry oflicial in conducting an inquiry, the
Minister may appoint the competent official having knowledge and experience in
conducting an inqurry as joint-inqury official under the Criminal Procedure Code. In
this case, that competent official shall have the powers and duties to assist the inquiry
official to conduct an inquiry the offense committed under this Act.
@ 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt Offrce of the Council of State (rrr.;u'knsdika go tlt u'*rv lawre{brm go th)
Remrrk: Refcrence to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be madc to the Thai version only. This trarslation has been made
so as to establish correct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
13
parasraphtrvoff -;:H''l,illlo"l,,x:Ir::#fril"J:?ii1lol",,,1lJf;:L$1trthe rules and procedure as the Director-General and the Commissioner-General of the
Royal Thai Police jointly determined.
CHAPTER VI
Penalties

Section 80. Original section/article: 51. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
An alien who engages in work without having the
permit shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of not exceeding five years or to a
fine from two thousand Baht to one hundred thousand Baht or to both.
In the case where the accused under paragraph one wilfully departs the
Kingdom within the period specified by the inquiry official, but not more than thirty
days, the inquiry official may settle the case and causes that alien to depart the
Kingdom

Section 81. Original section/article: 52. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
A holder of permit who engages in work in violation of
the conditions determined under

Section 82. Original section/article: 26. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall
be liable to a fine of not exceeding twenty thousand Baht.

Section 83. Original section/article: 53. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
A holder of permit who fails to notifu the registrar
under

Section 84. Original section/article: 22. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
or fails to comply with

Section 85. Original section/article: 24. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be liable to a fine of not
exceeding ten thousand Baht.

Section 86. Original section/article: 54. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
Whoever fails to comply with

Section 87. Original section/article: 27. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be liable
to a fine of not exceeding ten thousand Baht, and he shall be liable to a fine from ten
thousand Baht to one hundred thousand Baht per one alien if that alien has not had the
permit.

Section 88. Original section/article: 55. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
Whoever fails to comply with the written inquiry or
fails to give statement or deliver document or evidence to the registrar or the
competent official who performs duties under

Section 89. Original section/article: 48. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
without reasonable ground
shall be liable to a fine of not exceeding ten thousand Baht

Section 90. Original section/article: 56. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The offenses under this Act other than the offense under
seotion 5l maf be settled by the Settlement Committee as appointed by the Minister.
lhe Settlement Committee as appointed by the Minister under
paragraph one shall consist of three members whereby one of which shall be the
inquiry official,under the Criminal Procedure Code.
When the Settlement Committee has seffled the case and the accused
pay the fine in an amount as settled within thirty d"ys, the case is deemed to be settled
under the Criminal Procedure Code.
@ 2008, Pakom Nilprapunt, OfFce of the Council of State (rvryu,.krisdika.go.th. $"*rv.larwefonn.go.th)
Rcmerk Referencc to Thai legislation in any jtrisdiction shall bs made to the Thai version only. This fanslation has been made
so as to establish correct unrderstanding about this Act !o the foreignen.
t4
Transitory Provisions

Section 91. Original section/article: 57. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
The Ministerial Regulation prescribing the work that
may be engaged by the alien under

Section 92. Original section/article: 7. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
shall be enacted within two years as from
the date this Act comes into force.
While there is no such Ministerial Regulation under

Section 93. Original section/article: 7. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
, the
registrar may permit the alien to engage in any work other than the works as
prescribed by the Royal Decree enacted under

Section 94. Original section/article: 6. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
of the Working of Alien Act,
8.E.252t.

Section 95. Original section/article: 58. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
An alien who holds the permit or has been permit0ed to
engage in work under the Working of Alien Act, B.E. 2521 as amended by the
Working of Alien Act (No. 2), B.E. 2544 on the date this Act has been published in
the Government Gazette shall be deemed to have the permit or permission to engage
in work under this Act in accordance with the conditions as specified in the permit or
permission.
The permit granted under the Announcement of the National Executive
Council No.322, dated 13m December B.E. 2515 shall be valid through the period as
specified therein and the holder of permit still engage in work as permitted.

Section 96. Original section/article: 59. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
All applicant and appeal submitted under the provisions
of the Working of Alien Act, B.E. 2521 as amended by the Working of Alien Act
(No. 2), B.E. 2544 prior to the date this Act comes into force shall be deemed to be
the application or appeal submitted under.this Act.

Section 97. Original section/article: 60. Source: Royal Ordinance concerning Management of Employment of Foreign Workers B.E. 2560 (2017).
All Royal Decree, Ministerial Regulations,
Notifications, resolutions of the Council of Ministers or orders of the Minister or
Director-General issued or made by virtue of the provisions of the Working of Alien
Act, B.E. 2521 as amended by the Working of Alien Act (No. 2), B.E. 2544 and still
be in force prior to the date this Act comes into force shall be continued in force if
they are not contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this Ast and they shall
be deemed as if they are the Royal Decree, Ministerial Regulations, Notifications,
resolutions of the Council of Ministers or orders of the Minister or Director-General
issued or made by virtue of this Act.
Countersigned by:
General Surayud Chulanont
Prime Minister
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapun! Office of the Council of State (rvyw.k'.lsdr.kr,g.tlt .u\u-l-er{s!qsr€9.&)
Remerk Rcfcrcncc to Thai legislation in any jtnisdiction shall be made to the Thai version only. This tr"anslation has been made
so as to establish c{rr€ct understanding about this Act to the foreigners.
15
Rate of Fees
(1) The permit each 20,000 Baht
(2) Renewal of the permit each time 20,000 Baht
(3) Substitution of the permit each 3,000 Baht
(4) Permission to change or add category of work,
employer, working area or work place or
working conditions as pennitted each time 5,000 Baht
(5) Levy for hiring of alien other than skilled
worker or expert per person 10,000 Baht
(6) Submission of an application each 1,000 Baht
In the enactment of the Ministerial Regulation prescribing fees, the fees to be
prescribed may be different with due regard to nature of work or both nature and
working areaofalien.
O 2008, Pakorn Nilprapunt, OfEce of the Council of State (rirvu, krisdikq.g$.th. $rnv.lalwe,fblul.go.th)
Rcmrk Reference to Thai legislation in any jurisdiction shall be made to the Thai vcrsion only. This hanslation has been madc
so as to establish correct understanding about ttris Act to the foreigners.
