Thailand source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999)
Category: Business and investment
Source URL: https://investmentpolicy.unctad.org/investment-laws/laws/589/print/3
Note: UNCTAD Investment Policy Hub English text.

Section 1. Original section/article: 29. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, in conjunction with

Section 2. Original section/article: 50. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
of the
Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand so permits by virtue of provisions of law;
Be it, therefore, enacted by the King, by and with the advice and consent of the National Assembly, as
follows.

Section 3. Original section/article: 1. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
This Act is called the “Foreign Business Act, B.E. 2542 (1999)”.

Section 4. Original section/article: 2. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
This Act shall come into force after ninety days as from the date of its publication in the Government
Gazette.

Section 5. Original section/article: 3. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
There shall be repealed:
(1) Notification of the National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E. 2515 (1972);
(2) Act Amending the Notification of the National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E.
2515 (1972), B.E. 2521 (1978);
(3) Act Amending the Notification of the National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E.
2515 (1972) (No. 2), B.E. 2535 (1992).

Section 6. Original section/article: 4. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In this Act, “foreigner” means:
(1) a natural person who is not of Thai nationality;
(2) a juristic person not registered in Thailand;
(3) a juristic person registered in Thailand, being of the following descriptions:
(a) being a juristic person at least one half of capital shares of which are held by persons under (1) or
(2) or a juristic person in which investment has been placed by the persons under (1) or (2) in the
amount at least equivalent to one half of the total capital thereof;
(b) being a limited partnership or a registered ordinary partnership the managing partner or the
manager of which is the person under (1);
(4) a juristic person registered in Thailand at least one half of the capital shares of which are held by
persons under (1), (2) or (3) or a juristic person in which investment has been placed by the persons
under (1), (2) or (3) in the amount at least equivalent to one half of the total capital thereof;
For the purpose of this definition, shares of a limited company represented by share certificates issued
to bearers are deemed as shares held by foreigners, unless otherwise provided by the Ministerial
Regulation.
“capital” means a registered capital of a limited company or a paid‐up capital of a public limited
company or money invested in a partnership or a juristic person by partners or members thereof;
“minimum capital” means, in the case where the foreigner is a juristic person registered in Thailand, a
capital of a foreigner; and means, in the case where a foreigner is a juristic person not registered in
Thailand or is a natural person, foreign currencies brought and used by foreigners at the
commencement of the operation of businesses in Thailand;
“business” means the operation of an undertaking in the field of agriculture, industry, handicraft,
“business” means the operation of an undertaking in the field of agriculture, industry, handicraft,
commerce, services or any other undertaking for the purpose of trade;
“licence” means a business operation licence;
“licence grantee” means a foreigner to whom a licence has been granted;
“certificate” means a business operation certificate;
“certificate grantee” means a foreigner to whom a certificate has been granted;
“Commission” means the Foreign Business Commission;
“competent official” means a person appointed by the Minister to perform activities under this Act;
“Registrar” means the person appointed by the Minister as the Foreign Business Registrar;
“Director-General” means Director-General of the Department of Business Development;
“Minister” means the Minister having charge and control of the execution of this Act.

Section 7. Original section/article: 5. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In granting permission to foreigners for the operation of businesses under this Act, regard shall be had
to advantageous and disadvantageous effects on national safety and security, economic and social
development of the country, public order or good morals, national values in arts, culture, traditions and
customs, natural resources conservation, energy, environmental preservation, consumer protection,
sizes of undertakings, employment, technology transfer and research and development.

Section 8. Original section/article: 6. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The following foreigners may not operate any business within the Kingdom:
(1) a foreigner who has been deported or whose deportation is pending;
(2) a foreigner entering and staying in the Kingdom without permission under the law on immigration or
other laws.

Section 9. Original section/article: 7. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The following foreigners may operate businesses upon obtaining a licence from the Director-General
and may operate only such businesses, and in such localities, as prescribed in the Notification issued
by the Minister with the approval of the Council of Ministers and published in the Government Gazette,
provided that in such Notification the Minister may prescribe any conditions as the Minister deems
appropriate:
(1) a foreigner born in the Kingdom without having Thai nationality under the law on nationality or other
laws;
(2) a foreigner becoming a foreigner in consequence of the revocation of nationality under the law on
nationality or other laws.
The application for a licence, issuance of a licence and a term of a licence shall be in accordance with
rules and procedures as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation.
In the case where the Director-General refuses to grant permission to the foreigner under paragraph
one for the operation of businesses, such foreigner has the right to lodge an appeal with the Minister
and the provisions of

Section 10. Original section/article: 20. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph one and paragraph three shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 11. Original section/article: 12. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
:
(1) no foreigner may operate such businesses stricto sensu not permissible to foreigners by special
reason, as prescribed in List One;
(2) no foreigner may operate such businesses related to national safety or security, businesses having
impacts on arts, culture, traditions, customs and folklore handicrafts or businesses having impacts on
natural resources or the environment, as prescribed in List Two, unless upon obtaining permission from
the Minister with the approval of the Council of Ministers;
(3) no foreigner may operate such businesses in respect of which Thai nationals are not yet ready to
compete with foreigners, as prescribed in List Three, unless upon obtaining permission from the
Director-General with the approval of the Commission.

Section 12. Original section/article: 9. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any amendment or revision of categories of businesses in the Lists annexed hereto shall be by a Royal
Decree, save for the businesses in List One or in List Two, Chapter 1, where such amendment or
revision shall be by an Act.
The Commission shall consider and review categories of businesses in the Lists annexed hereto at
least once every duration of one year as from the date of the entry into force of this Act and shall
prepare an opinion for submission to the Minister.
Foreigners operating businesses not prescribed in the Lists annexed hereto prior to the amendment or
revision of categories of businesses under paragraph one shall, where such businesses are thereafter
specified as the businesses the operation of which requires permission under this Act and such
foreigners intend to continue the operation thereof, notify the Director-General in order to obtain a
certificate in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed in

Section 13. Original section/article: 11. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
During the period in which action is taken under paragraph three and a certificate has not yet been
obtained, such foreigner shall not be deemed as operating the business without permission under this
Act.
Act.

Section 14. Original section/article: 18. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
shall not apply to
foreigners operating businesses specified in the Lists annexed hereto upon permission granted pro
tempore by the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand.
Foreigners operating businesses specified in the Lists annexed hereto by virtue of a treaty to which
Thailand becomes a party or by which Thailand is bound in consequence of obligations therefrom shall
be exempt from the application of the provisions of the sections specified in paragraph one and shall be
governed by the provisions of and conditions set forth in such treaty, which may, inter alia, confer upon
Thai nationals or Thai enterprises the right to operate businesses in the countries of nationality of such
foreigners as a matter of reciprocity.

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
who intend to operate businesses specified in the Lists annexed hereto
shall notify the Director-General in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed in the
Ministerial Regulation in order to obtain certificates, and the Director-General shall issue certificates to
such foreigners without delay but no later than thirty days as from the date of receipt of their written
notification, unless the Director-General considers that the notification is not in accordance with the
rules and procedures prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation or that it is not in accordance with

Section 16. Original section/article: 10. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, in which case the Director-General shall notify such foreigners thereof without delay but no later
than thirty days as from the date of receipt of their written notification.
The certificates shall also indicate conditions prescribed by the Government or prescribed in the treaty.

Section 17. Original section/article: 12. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case where the business of the foreigner who is promoted under the law on investment
promotion or granted written permission for the operation of the industry or the operation of trade for
export under the law on the Industrial Estate of Thailand or under other laws is the business specified in
List Two or List Three annexed hereto, such foreigner shall notify the Director-General in order to
obtain a certificate. When the Director-General or the entrusted competent official has examined validity
of the investment promotion certificate or written permit, the Director-General shall issue a certificate
without delay but no later than thirty days as from the date of receipt of the notification of the acquisition
of the investment promotion certificate or written permit, as the case may be. In this case, such
foreigner shall be exempt from the application of this Act, with the exception of

Section 18. Original section/article: 42. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, throughout the period in which the business in question is under
investment promotion or under permission for the operation of the industry or the operation of trade for
export, as the case may be.
The issuance of the certificate under paragraph one shall be in accordance with the rules and
procedures as prescribed by the Director-General.

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case where there exist other laws which govern shareholding, partnership or investment of
foreigners, permission or prohibition of the operation of certain businesses vis-à-vis foreigners or which
prescribe rules in connection with the operation of businesses of foreigners, such laws shall prevail and
the provisions of this Act shall not apply to matters insofar as they are specifically provided by other
laws.

Section 20. Original section/article: 14. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The minimum capital to be used by a foreigner for the commencement of the operation of a business in
Thailand shall not be less than that prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation, provided that it shall not be
less than two million Baht.
In the case where the business of the foreigner under paragraph one is the business requiring
permission as specified in the Lists annexed hereto, the minimum capital as prescribed in the
Ministerial Regulation for each business shall not be less than three million Baht.
The Ministerial Regulation issued under the provisions of this section may also prescribe the time within
which the minimum capital must be brought or remitted into Thailand.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the case where the foreigner uses money or property
derived as revenues from the original business already in operation in Thailand for commencement of
another business or for subscribing to shares or investing in any other undertaking or in any other
juristic person.

Section 21. Original section/article: 15. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
A foreigner which is a juristic person may operate any business specified in List Two only where not
less than forty percent of its shares are held by Thai nationals or juristic persons which are not
foreigners under this Act, save that, where there is a reasonable cause, the Minister with the approval
of the Council of Ministers may reduce the proportion in this matter, provided that the required
shareholding must not be less than twenty five percent and that not less than two‐fifths of the total
number of its directors must be Thai nationals.
number of its directors must be Thai nationals.

Section 22. Original section/article: 16. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
A foreigner intending to apply for a licence must have the qualifications and must not be under
prohibitions as follows:
(1) being of not less than twenty years of age;
(2) having a residence in the Kingdom or having been permitted to enter the Kingdom temporarily under
the law on immigration;
(3) not being an incompetent or a quasi‐incompetent person;
(4) not being a bankrupt;
(5) not having been punished by a court judgment or ordered to pay a fine in settlement of any offence
under this Act or under the Notification of the National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th
November B.E. 2515 (1972), unless having been discharged for a period of not less than five years
prior to the date of the application for the licence;
(6) not having been imprisoned by a court judgment for offences of cheating, cheating creditors,
misappropriation or offences related to trade under the Penal Code or the offences related to loans
fraudulent to the public or the offences under the law on immigration, unless having been discharged
for a period of not less than five years prior to the date of the application for the licence;
(7) not having had a licence issued under this Act or under the Notification of the National Executive
Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E. 2515 (1972) revoked within the period of five years prior to
the date of the application for the licence.
In the case where a juristic person is an applicant, foreign directors, managers or persons responsible
for the operation of such juristic person must also have the qualifications and must not be of any
prohibition specified in paragraph one.

Section 23. Original section/article: 17. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In applying for permission for the operation of a business, the foreigner shall file an application to the
Minister or the DirectorGeneral in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed in the
Ministerial Regulation; and the Council of Ministers, in the case of businesses in List Two, or the
Director-General, in the case of businesses in List Three, shall complete the consideration as to
whether to give approval or grant permission, as the case may be, within the period of sixty days as
from the date of the filing of the application. In the case where, with respect to the consideration by the
Council of Ministers as to whether to give approval, there exists an inevitable cause preventing the
Council of Ministers from completing its consideration within such period of time, that period may be
extended as is necessary, provided that the extension shall not be in excess of sixty days as from the
expiration thereof.
When the Council of Ministers has given approval or the Director-General has granted permission
under paragraph one, the Minister or the Director-General shall issue a licence within fifteen days as
from the date of the approval by the Council of Ministers or the permission by the Director-General.
In granting permission, the Minister may, with respect to the businesses in List Two, prescribe
conditions as prescribed by the Council of Ministers or as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation
issued by virtue of

Section 24. Original section/article: 18. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, or the Director-General may, with respect to the businesses in List
Three, prescribe conditions as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation issued by virtue of

Section 25. Original section/article: 18. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case where the Council of Ministers refuses to give approval to a foreigner for the operation of
businesses in List Two, the Minister shall, in writing and within thirty days, notify such foreigner of the
refusal to give approval and shall also make a clear indication of the reason for such refusal to give
approval.
In the case where the Director-General refuses to grant permission to a foreigner for the operation of
businesses in List Three, the DirectorGeneral shall, in writing and within fifteen days, notify such
foreigner of the refusal to grant permission and shall also make a clear indication of the reason for such
refusal to grant permission. Such foreigner has the right to lodge with the Minister an appeal against the
order refusing to grant permission, and the provisions of

Section 26. Original section/article: 20. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 27. Original section/article: 18. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Minister, with the recommendation of the Commission, has the power to issue Ministerial
Regulations prescribing any of the following conditions to be observed by foreigners who are licence
grantees:
(1) the ratio of the capital to loans for the operation of permitted businesses;
(2) the number of foreign directors who must have a domicile or residence in the Kingdom;
(3) the amount of, and the period of time for maintaining, the minimum capital in the country;
(4) technology or property;
(5) other necessary conditions.

Section 28. Original section/article: 19. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
When it appears that any licence grantee or certificate grantee:
(1) violates any conditions prescribed by the Ministers under

Section 29. Original section/article: 7. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph one;
(2) fails to comply with any conditions prescribed under

Section 30. Original section/article: 17. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
(2) fails to comply with any conditions prescribed under

Section 31. Original section/article: 17. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph three;
(3) violates

Section 32. Original section/article: 15. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
;
(4) becomes disqualified or is under any prohibitions under

Section 33. Original section/article: 16. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
;
(5) commits the offence under

Section 34. Original section/article: 35. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
,
then, in the case of circumstances under (1), (2) and (3), the DirectorGeneral shall serve on the licence
grantee or certificate grantee a written notification instructing such person to comply with the conditions
under

Section 35. Original section/article: 17. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph three or to perform
in compliance with

Section 36. Original section/article: 15. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, as the case may be, within such time as the Director-General deems
appropriate. If the licence grantee or certificate grantee fails to take action as instructed by the Director-
General in the written notification without any reasonable cause, the Director-General has the power to
give an order suspending the licence temporarily or compelling temporary cessation of the business for
a period of time as the Director-General deems appropriate which must not be in excess of sixty days
as from the date of the order. If, upon the lapse of such period, the foreigner has not accomplished the
action as instructed, the Director-General shall consider giving an order revoking the licence or
certificate or making a recommendation to the Minister for considering giving an order revoking the
licence, as the case may be.
In the case of circumstances under (4) and (5), the Director-General shall consider giving an order
revoking the licence or making a recommendation to the Minister for considering giving an order
revoking the licence, as the case may be.

Section 37. Original section/article: 20. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case where the Director-General gives an order suspending the licence temporarily or compelling
temporary cessation of the business or gives an order revoking the licence or certificate under

Section 38. Original section/article: 19. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph two, the licence grantee or the certificate grantee has the right to lodge with the Minister
an appeal in writing within thirty days as from the date of receipt of the notification of the order.
In the case where the Director-General gives an order suspending the licence temporarily or compelling
temporary cessation of the business or gives an order revoking the licence or certificate under

Section 39. Original section/article: 19. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph two, the licence grantee or the certificate grantee has the right to lodge with the Minister
an appeal in writing within thirty days as from the date of receipt of the notification of the order.
In the case where the Director-General gives an order suspending the licence temporarily or compelling
temporary cessation of the business or gives an order revoking the licence or certificate under

Section 40. Original section/article: 19. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph two, the licence grantee or the certificate grantee has the right to lodge with the Minister
an appeal in writing within thirty days as from the date of receipt of the notification of the order.

Section 41. Original section/article: 20. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, a licence shall be valid for an indefinite period until
cessation by the licence grantee of the permitted business. A certificate shall be valid for such period as
permitted by the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand or as prescribed by the treaty permitting the
operation of the business in question or throughout the period in which the business in question is
under investment promotion or under permission for the operation of the industry or the operation of
trade for export, as the case may be, unless the certificate grantee ceases to operate the permitted
business prior to the expiration of such period, in which case the certificate shall be valid until such
cessation.
The licence grantee or the certificate grantee shall display the licence or certificate at an overt location
at his place of business.
If the licence or certificate is damaged or lost, an application for a substitute shall be submitted to the
Registrar within fifteen days as from the date of the knowledge of the damage or loss.
The application for, and issuance of, licence or certificate substitutes shall be in accordance with the
forms and procedures prescribed by the Minister, provided that the time within which substitutes are
issued shall not be in excess of thirty days as from the date of receipt of the applications, and such
substitutes shall be deemed as valid documents in substitution for the licences or certificates until new
licences or certificates are granted.

Section 42. Original section/article: 22. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
When a licence grantee or a certificate grantee ceases to operate the business or relocates an office or
a place of business, notification of such cessation or relocation shall be made to the Registrar within
fifteen days as from the date of such cessation or relocation in accordance with the form and
procedures prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation.

Section 43. Original section/article: 23. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
There shall be a Foreign Business Commission consisting of the Permanent Secretary for Commerce
as Chairperson, a representative of the Office of the National Economic and Social Development
Board, a representative of the Office of the Board of Investment, a representative of the Ministry of
Defence, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Co‐operatives, a representative of the Ministry of
Transportation, a representative of the Ministry of Interior, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, a
Transportation, a representative of the Ministry of Interior, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, a
representative of the Ministry of Science and Technology, a representative of the Ministry of Industry, a
representative of the Ministry of Education, a representative of the Ministry of Public Health, a
representative of the Office of the Consumer Protection Board, a representative of the Royal Thai
Police, a representative of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, a representative of the Federation of Thai
Industries, a representative of the Thai Bankers’ Association and not more than five qualified persons
appointed by the Minister as members, and the Director-General of the Department of Business
Development shall be a member and secretary.
The qualified persons must possess the knowledge and expertise in economics, law, commerce,
science, technology, environment, trade, investment, business administration or industry and must not
be advisors to any political party or hold political positions.
The representative under paragraph one, in the case of representing a State agency, must hold office
not lower than Director-General or the equivalent and, in case of representing the Thai Chamber of
Commerce, the Federation of Thai Industries or the Thai Bankers’ Association, must hold office not
lower than Director of such Chamber, Federation or Association.

Section 44. Original section/article: 24. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
A qualified member shall hold office for a term of two years. In the case where a member vacates office
before the expiration of the term or in the case where the Minister appoints any additional member
during the remaining term of the members already appointed, the replacing or additional appointee
shall hold office for the remaining term of the members already appointed.
An outgoing qualified member may be re‐appointed but may not serve for more than two consecutive
terms.

Section 45. Original section/article: 25. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In addition to vacating office at the expiration of the term under

Section 46. Original section/article: 24. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, a qualified member vacates
office upon:
(1) death;
(2) resignation;
(3) being removed by the Minister on the ground of a disgraceful behaviour, lack of integrity, neglect of
duties or deficient capability;
(4) being a bankrupt;
(5) being an incompetent or a quasi‐incompetent person;
(6) being imprisoned by a final judgment except for an offence committed through negligence or a petty
offence;
(7) being disqualified or being under any prohibition under

Section 47. Original section/article: 26. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Commission has the powers and duties as prescribed in this Act and shall have the following
powers and duties:
(1) to give advice, make recommendations or give opinions to the Minister on the issuance of Royal
Decrees and Ministerial Regulations under this Act or the prescription of categories of businesses and
localities for businesses to be operated by foreigners under

Section 48. Original section/article: 7. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
or requests for the Council of
Ministers’ approval under

Section 49. Original section/article: 8. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
(2);
(2) to study, gather and prepare reports on the operation of businesses by foreigners in the Kingdom,
including impacts and appropriateness of such matter, for submission to the Minister from time to time
but at the frequency of not less than once a year;
(3) to give advice, make recommendations or give opinions to the Minister on other matters as
entrusted by the Minister.

Section 50. Original section/article: 27. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
At a meeting of the Commission, the presence of not less than one half of the total number of the
members is required to constitute a quorum. If the Chairperson is not present at the meeting or is
unable to perform the duty, the members present shall elect one amongst themselves to preside over
the meeting.
A decision of a meeting shall be by a majority of votes. In casting votes, each member shall have one
vote. In the case of an equality of votes, the person presiding over the meeting shall have an additional
vote as a casting vote.

Section 51. Original section/article: 28. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Commission has the power to appoint a sub-committee for considering or performing any particular
act entrusted by the Commission, and

Section 52. Original section/article: 27. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
shall apply to a meeting of a sub-committee mutatis
mutandis.

Section 53. Original section/article: 29. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Department of Business Development, Ministry of Commerce, shall serve as the secretariat of the
Commission and shall have the following powers and duties:
(1) to perform tasks in accordance with resolutions of the Commission or as entrusted by the
(1) to perform tasks in accordance with resolutions of the Commission or as entrusted by the
Commission;
(2) to consider proposing opinions to the Commission in connection with the operation of foreign
businesses in the Kingdom for educational purposes and to gather information and prepare reports for
submission to the Minister;
(3) to perform general administrative work of the Commission.

Section 54. Original section/article: 30. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Registrar and competent officials have the following powers:
(1) to address in writing enquiries or summons requiring any person to give explanations on any facts
and furnish documents or evidence necessary for factual examination;
(2) to enter premises where foreigners operate businesses during office hours for examining and
ensuring the compliance with this Act, provided that written consent of the Director-General shall first
be obtained, save in the case of utmost emergency; in the performance of such duties, the Registrar
and competent officials shall have the power to inquire into any facts or summon any document or
evidence particularly essential for factual examination from persons staying at such premises.
In the performance of duties under (2), the owner or occupier of the premises shall provide the
Registrar or competent officials with reasonable assistance. The Registrar or competent officials must
not carry out any act which is, in essence, tantamount to the exertion of a threat or a search under the
Criminal Procedure Code and must serve not less than three working-day prior written notice on the
owner or occupier of the premises, save in the case of utmost emergency and shall, upon completion of
the performance of duties, furnish to the Minister a written report on the outcome thereof without delay.

Section 55. Original section/article: 31. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
When any person makes a request for an examination or reproduction of documents or requests the
Registrar to reproduce or make photocopies of documents together with certification thereof or issue
certification of statements retained by the Registrar, the Registrar shall grant permission without delay,
save that such documents are in essence subject to the requirement of non-disclosure under the law on
official information or other laws, provided that the requester must make payment of fees as prescribed
in the Ministerial Regulation.

Section 56. Original section/article: 32. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The competent official must have an identification card in accordance with the form prescribed in the
Ministerial Regulation. In the performance of duties, the competent official must show the identification
card to persons concerned.

Section 57. Original section/article: 33. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the performance of duties under this Act, members, the Director-General, the Registrar and
competent officials shall be officials under the Penal Code.

Section 58. Original section/article: 34. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any foreigner, to whom a licence or a certificate has been granted, who continues to operate the
business after the licence has been suspended or revoked or after the operation of the business to
which the certificate relates has been ordered to be ceased without right to appeal or with the Minister
giving a final decision mandating the suspension or revocation of the licence or the cessation of the
operation of the business, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a
fine of one hundred thousand Baht to one million Baht or to both and to an additional fine at the daily
rate of ten thousand Baht throughout the period of the violation.

Section 59. Original section/article: 35. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any foreigner, to whom a licence has been granted for the operation of any business under this Act,
who participates in the operation of the business of another foreigner not permitted to operate the
business under this Act or operates the business of which such other foreigner is a co-owner in the
manner holding it out as the former’s sole business with a view to enabling such other foreigner to
circumvent or violate provisions of this Act shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years or to a fine of one hundred thousand Baht to one million Baht or to both, and the Court shall
order the cessation of such business participation or operation. In the case of violation of the order of
the Court, the violator shall be liable to a fine at the daily rate of ten thousand Baht to fifty thousand
Baht throughout the period of the violation.

Section 60. Original section/article: 36. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
A Thai national or a juristic person, not being a foreigner under this Act, who assists in or aids and
abets or participates in the operation of a foreigner’s business specified in the Lists annexed hereto
where such foreigner is not permitted to operate that business or who operates the business jointly with
a foreigner in the manner holding it out as the former’s sole business or who acts as a foreigner’s
nominee in holding shares in a partnership or a limited company or any juristic person with a view to
enabling the foreigner to operate the business in circumvention or violation of the provisions of this Act,
or a foreigner who allows such act to be committed by a Thai national or a juristic person that is not a
foreigner under this Act, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine
of one hundred thousand Baht to one million Baht or to both, and the Court shall order the cessation of
of one hundred thousand Baht to one million Baht or to both, and the Court shall order the cessation of
the assistance or the aiding and abetting or order the cessation of the joint operation of the business or
order the cessation of shareholding or partnership, as the case may be. In the case of violation of the
order of the Court, the violator shall be liable to a fine at the daily rate of ten thousand Baht to fifty
thousand Baht throughout the period of the violation.

Section 61. Original section/article: 37. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any foreigner who operates a business in violation of

Section 62. Original section/article: 8. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine of one hundred thousand Baht to one
million Baht or to both, and the Court shall order the cessation of the business operation or the
cessation of the undertaking or order the cessation of shareholding or partnership, as the case may be.
In the case of violation of the order of the Court, the violator shall be liable to a fine at the daily rate of
ten thousand Baht to fifty thousand Baht throughout the period of the violation.

Section 63. Original section/article: 38. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any foreigner who operates a business in violation of

Section 64. Original section/article: 14. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
or violates the conditions under

Section 65. Original section/article: 18. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
(3) shall be liable to a fine of one hundred thousand Baht to one million Baht and to an additional
fine at the daily rate of ten thousand Baht to fifty thousand Baht throughout the period of the violation.

Section 66. Original section/article: 39. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any licence grantee or certificate grantee who fails to comply with

Section 67. Original section/article: 21. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
paragraph two or
paragraph three or violates

Section 68. Original section/article: 22. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand Baht.

Section 69. Original section/article: 40. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Any person who fails to comply with a written enquiry or a written summons of the Registrar or the
competent official or fails to provide facts or to furnish documents or evidence when so enquired or
summoned by the Registrar or the competent official for the purpose of examination or fails to provide
assistance to the Registrar or the competent official under

Section 70. Original section/article: 30. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
without any reasonable cause
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand Baht.

Section 71. Original section/article: 41. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case where a juristic person commits offences under

Section 72. Original section/article: 37. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, directors, partners or persons with the authority to represent the juristic person, who connive at the
commission of such offences or fail to take reasonable action in preventing such offences shall be liable
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to a fine of one hundred thousand Baht to one
million Baht or to both.

Section 73. Original section/article: 42. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
In the case of the offences under

Section 74. Original section/article: 40. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
, the Director-General or the person
entrusted by the Director-General shall have the power to settle the offences by way of payment of a
fine. Upon payment by the alleged offender of a fine in the amount ordered by the Director-General or
the person entrusted by the Director-General within thirty days as from the date of the settlement, the
case shall be deemed as terminated by way of such settlement.

Section 75. Original section/article: 43. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
All Royal Decrees, Ministerial Regulations, Notifications and Orders which are in force on the date of
the entry into force of this Act shall remain in force insofar as they are not contrary to or inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act until Royal Decrees, Ministerial Regulations, Notifications and Orders
issued under this Act are in force.

Section 76. Original section/article: 44. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Foreigners who have acquired the right or have been permitted to operate businesses under the
Notification of the National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E. 2515 (1972) prior to
the date of the entry into force of this Act shall continue to enjoy the right or be permitted to operate
such businesses in accordance with the conditions and the term of the rights or permission so acquired.

Section 77. Original section/article: 45. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
Foreigners who, on the date of the entry into force of this Act, have operated businesses specified in
the Lists annexed hereto but not specified in the Lists annexed to the Notification of the National
Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E. 2515 (1972) shall, in the event of intending to
continue the operation of such businesses, notify the Director-General for obtaining a certificate in
accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed in

Section 78. Original section/article: 11. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
within one year as from the date of
the entry into force of this Act and, during the period in which the certificate has not yet been obtained,
such foreigners shall not be deemed as operating the businesses without permission under this Act.

Section 79. Original section/article: 46. Source: Foreign Business Act B.E. 2542 (1999).
The Minister of Commerce shall have charge and control of the execution of this Act and shall have the
power to appoint the Registrar and competent officials and issue Ministerial Regulations prescribing
fees not in excess of the rate annexed hereto, exempting fees and prescribing other acts for the
execution of this Act.
Such Ministerial Regulations shall come into force upon their publication in the Government Gazette.
RATES OF FEES [...]
RATES OF FEES [...]
LISTS ANNEXED TO THE FOREIGN BUSINESS ACT, B.E. 2542 (1999)
LIST ONE
BUSINESSES STRICTO SENSU NOT PERMISSIBLE TO FOREIGNERS BY SPECIAL REASON
(1) The Press, radio broadcasting station or radio and television station business
(2) Rice farming, plantation or crop growing
(3) Livestock farming
(4) Forestry and timber processing from a natural forest
(5) Fishery, only in respect of the catchment of aquatic animals in Thai waters and specific economic
zones of Thailand
(6) Extraction of Thai medicinal herbs
(7) Trading and auction sale of antique objects of Thailand or objects of historical value of the country
(8) Making or casting Buddha Images and monk alms-bowls
(9) Land trading
LIST TWO
BUSINESSES RELATED TO NATIONAL SAFETY OR SECURITY OR HAVING IMPACTS ON ARTS,
CULTURE, TRADITIONS, CUSTOMS AND FOLKLORE HANDICRAFTS OR NATURAL RESOURCES
AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Chapter 1: Businesses related to National Safety or Security
(1) Production, distribution and maintenance of:
(a) firearms, ammunition, gun powders and explosives;
(b) components of firearms, ammunition and explosives;
(c) armaments, ships, aircraft or vehicles for military use;
(d) equipment or components of all types of war materials
(2) Domestic transportation by land, water or air, including domestic aviation
Chapter 2: Businesses Having Impacts on Arts, Culture, Traditions, Customs and Folklore
Handicrafts
(1) Trading of antiques or artistic objects that are artistic works or handicrafts of Thailand
(2) Production of wood carvings
(3) Silkworm raising, production of Thai silk yarn, weaving of Thai silk or printing of Thai silk patterns
(4) Production of Thai musical instruments
(5) Production of goldware, silverware, nielloware, bronzeware or lacquerware
(6) Production of crockery or porcelains representing Thai arts and culture
Chapter 3: Businesses Having Impacts on Natural Resources or the Environment
(1) Production of sugar from sugar cane
(2) Salt farming, including non-sea salt farming
(3) Production of rock salt
(4) Mining, including rock blasting or rock crushing
(5) Timber processing for production of furniture and utensils
LIST THREE
BUSINESSES IN RESPECT OF WHICH THAI NATIONALS ARE NOT READY TO COMPETE WITH
FOREIGNERS
(1) Rice milling and production of flour from rice and economic plants
(2) Fishery only in respect of the hatching and raising of aquatic animals
(3) Forestry from a grown forest
(4) Production of plywood, veneer wood, chipboards or hardboards
(5) Production of lime
(6) Provision of accounting services
(7) Provision of legal services
(8) Provision of architectural services
(9) Provision of engineering services
(10) Construction, with the exception of:
(a) Construction of structures for delivery of infrastructure public services in the sphere of public utilities
or transportation requiring the use of special apparatuses, machines, technology or expertise, with the
minimum capital of five hundred million Baht or upwards from foreigners;
(b) Construction of other types as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation
(11) Brokerage or agency businesses, with the exception of:
(a) being a broker or an agent in the sale or purchase of securities or in services related to futures
trading of agricultural commodities or financing instruments or securities;
(b) being a broker or an agent in the sale, purchase or procurement of goods or services necessary for
the production or the provision of services amongst affiliated enterprises;
(c) being a broker or an agent in the sale or purchase, procurement, distribution or acquisition of
domestic and foreign markets for the distribution of domestically manufactured or imported goods,
domestic and foreign markets for the distribution of domestically manufactured or imported goods,
which is in character the operation of international trade, with the minimum capital of one hundred
million Baht or upwards from foreigners;
(d) being a broker or an agent of other types as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation
(12) Sale by auction, with the exception of:
(a) a sale by auction which, in character, involves international bidding of items other than antiques,
objects of antiquity or artistic objects that are artistic works or handicrafts or objects of antiquity of
Thailand or of historical value of the country;
(b) sales by auction of other types as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulation
(13) Internal trade related to traditional agricultural products or produce not yet prohibited by law
(14) Retail sale of goods of all types with the total minimum capital in the amount lower than one
hundred million Baht or with the minimum capital of each store in the amount lower than twenty million
Baht
(15) Wholesale of all types with the minimum capital of each store in the amount lower than one
hundred million Baht
(16) Advertising business
(17) Hotel business, with the exception of the hotel management service
(18) Guided touring
(19) Sale of food and beverages
(20) Cultivation, propagation or development of plant varieties
(21) Other service businesses, with the exception of service businesses as prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulation
Note:- The reason for the promulgation of this Act is as follows. Whereas the Notif ication of the
National Executive Council No. 281, dated 24th November B.E. 2515 (1972) which is currently in force
has been in force for a considerable period of time and contains certain principles inconsistent with
circumstances in economy, investment and international trade of the present time, it is expedient to
revise the said law with a view to promoting competition in business operation both at domestic and
international levels, which will be of value to Thailand as a whole, and thereby putting in place the
implementation of obligations under international treaties as well. It is therefore necessary to enact this
Act.
