Thailand source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979)
Category: Immigration
Source URL: https://www.samutprakanimmigration.go.th/downloads/Immigration_Act.pdf
Note: Refworld English translation; comments note later Thai amendments.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: This Act shall be called the “ Immigration Act, B.E. 2522 ”

Section 2. Original section/article: 2. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: This Act shall be enforced after the lose of ninety days from the date of its publication in the
Government Gazette.

Section 3. Original section/article: 3. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Immigration Acts :
1. B.E. 2493 ( 1950 )
2. B.E. 2497 ( 1954 – NO.2 )
Shall be repealed
In lieu all others laws , regulations , or rules witch are provided for in this
Act or contradictory hereto or inconsistent herewith , the provision of this Act shall be applied.

Section 4. Original section/article: 4. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In this Act :
“ Alien” means any person who is not of Thai nationality under the nationality Act.
“ Conveyance” means any vehicle or beast of burden or any other object(s) which may be used in
conveying persons from one place to another.
“ Owner of Conveyance ” includes an agent of the owner , a person renting, an agent if the person renting
, possessor , or an agent of the possessor of the conveyance , as the case may be.
“ Person in charge of conveyance” means the master of the vessel or person responsible for the control
of the conveyance.
“ Crew of conveyance” means the person who has a function , duty , or work in the conveyance , and in
the interest of this Act , it includes the person in charge of conveyance driving the conveyance without a
crew.
“ passenger ” means any person other than the person in charge , or the crew of conveyance
“ Immigrant ” means any alien who enters the Kingdom.
“ Immigration Doctor ” means any doctor appointed by the Director General to carry out the provisions of
this Act.
“ House Master ” means any persons who is the chief possessor of a house , whether in the capacity of
owner , tenant , or in any other capacity whatsoever , in accordance with the law on people act.
“ Dwelling Place ” means any place used for habitation such as a house shed , boat or floating house
which human beings inhabit .It also includes the precinct of the place used for habitation , whether it be
enclosed or not , in accordance with the Panel Code.
“ Hotel ” means any place built for remuneration for travelers or persons who wish to look for a place to
stay or rest for a period of time , in accordance with the law on the hotels.
“ Commission ” means The Immigration Commission.
“ Competent Official ” means any officer appointed by the Minister to carry out a function in conformity
with this Act.
“ Director ” means Director General of the Police Department.
“ Minister ” means the Minister in charge of this Act.

Section 5. Original section/article: 5. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The Minister of Interior shall be in charge and have control for the executive of this Act and
shall have power to appoint competent officials , and Issue Minister Regulations ; to fix fees and other
expense not exceeding rates annexed to this Act and to fix other activities for the execution of this Act.
Such Ministerial Regulations shall become effective after having been published in the government
Gazette.
Chapter 1
immigration Commission

Section 6. Original section/article: 6. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The immigration Commission will consist of the Under Secretary of the Minister of Interior as
Chairman and the following members :
- Under Secretary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs
- Director general , Police Department
- Director General , labor Department
- Director General , public Prosecution Department
- Secretary General , Board of Investment Committee
- Secretary General , National Security Council
- Director , Tourist Organization of Thailand
- Commander of Immigration Division as member and secretary

Section 7. Original section/article: 7. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The Immigration Commission shall have power and duty to :
1. Revoke permission for temporary stay in the Kingdom under

Section 8. Original section/article: 36. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 1.
2. Consider and appeal under

Section 9. Original section/article: 36. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 2.
3. Permit aliens to enter into and assume residence in the Kingdom under

Section 10. Original section/article: 41. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para1
4. Fix qualifications of any aliens asking to take up residence in the Kingdom ;and to fix
conditions pertaining to the national security ; and to fix other conditions under

Section 11. Original section/article: 41. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 2.
5. Fix Regulations for residence applications of aliens temporarily entering into the Kingdom
under

Section 12. Original section/article: 41. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 4.
6. Permit aliens to enter into and take up residence on the Kingdom under

Section 13. Original section/article: 43. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 1
and to fix regulations for display of the aliens financial status under

Section 14. Original section/article: 43. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 2.
7. Permit the aliens , who is authorized to stay in the Kingdom temporarily , to take up residence
; and to permit and fix conditions in rendering permission to the alien who has applied for taking up
residence in the Kingdom to remain in the Kingdom for the tome being under

Section 15. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 1 and 2.
8. Give order to revoke permission for taking up residence in the Kingdom under

Section 16. Original section/article: 47. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 3.
9. Permit aliens , who have a residence in t he kingdom , to continue that residence in the
Kingdom under

Section 17. Original section/article: 51. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 1.
10. Consider revocation of a residence permit under permit under

Section 18. Original section/article: 53. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
11. Give advice , suggestions and view to the Minister on establishing standard operating
procedures for local official and for other officials , regarding national security , as well as issuance of
Ministerial Regulations under this Act.
12. Consider and give opinions on immigration matters as assigned by the cabinet or by the
Minister.

Section 19. Original section/article: 8. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the performance of duty of the Immigration Commission under this Act , the Committee
member who is also the security shall , without delay , submit matters under committee jurisdiction to the
chairman of the Committee ; his duty , he ( the committee member who is also the secretary ) shall
without delay , submit them to the committee member who is appointed by the committee. The chairman
of the committee or the committee member so appointed shall call for a meeting in accordance with the
urgency of the matter and in accordance with the rules and regulations fix by the committee.
In the meeting of the Commission , if the Chairman does not attend the meeting or is not in the
meeting of the members of the meeting shall select one member to preside over the Meeting.
The quorum of any meeting will consist of no less than half of all members.
Decisions of the meeting will be decided by a majority vote. One member has one vote. If the
voting score is equal , the Chairman of the meeting shall make the deciding vote.

Section 20. Original section/article: 9. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The Immigration commission may appoint Sub – Committees or may empower any
Competent Official to carry out any assigned function.The provision of

Section 21. Original section/article: 8. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be applied Mutantis
Mutandis for the meeting of the Sub – Committee.

Section 22. Original section/article: 10. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the performance of duties under this Act , the commission shall have power to issue
written orders asking persons concerned to give facts or to present documents pertaining to meters under
the power and duty of the Immigration Commission.
Chapter 2
Entering and Department the Kingdom

Section 23. Original section/article: 11. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Persons entering into or departing the Kingdom must other and leave by way of
immigration check points , designated landing , stations or areas and in accordance to the prescribed
time as published in the Government Gazette by the Minister.

Section 24. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Aliens which fall into any of the following categories are excluded from entering into the
Kingdom :
1. Having no genuine and valid passport or document used in lieu of passport ; or having a
genuine and valid passport or document used in lieu of a passport without Visaing by the Royal Thai
Embassies or Consulates in Foreign countries ; or from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , excepting if a visa
is not required for certain types of aliens in special instances.
Visaing and visa exemption will be under the learn and conditions as provided in the Ministerial
Regulations.
2. Having no appropriate means of living following entrance into the Kingdom.
3. Having entered into the Kingdom to take occupation as a laborer or to take employment by
using physical without skills training or to work in violation of the Ministerial Regulations.
4. Being mentally unstable or having any of t he disease as prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulations.
5. Having not yet been vaccinated against smalllpox or inoculated or undergone any other
medical treatment for protection against disease and having refused to have such vaccinations
administered by the Immigration Doctor.
6. Having been imprisoned by the judgement of the T hai Court ; or by a lawful injunction ; or by
the judgement of the Court of foreign country , except when the penalty is foe petty offense or negligence
or is provided for as an exception in the Ministerial Regulations.
7. Having behavior which would indicated possible danger to the public or likelihood of being a
nuisance or constituting any violence to the peace or safety of the public or to the security of the public or
to the security of the nation , or being under warrant of arrest by competent officials of foreign
governments.
8. Reason to believe that entrance into t he Kingdom was for the purpose of being involved in
prostitution , the trading of woman of children , drug smuggling , or other types of smuggling which are
contrary to the public morality.
9. Having no money or bond as prescribed by the Minister under him
10. Being a person prohibited by the Minister under

Section 25. Original section/article: 16. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
11. Being deported by either the Government of Thailand that of or other foreign countries ; or
the right of stay in the Kingdom or in foreign countries having been revoked ; or having been sent out of
the Kingdom by competent officials at the expense of the Government of Thailand unless the Minister
shall consider exemption on an individual special case basis.
The examination and diagnosis of disease of a physical or mental nature , including protective
operations as against disease , shall be conducted by the Immigration Doctor.

Section 26. Original section/article: 13. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The bellowed listed aliens shall not be required to have a passport or document in lieu
of passport :
1. Any person in charge of or the crew of a se agoing or air conveyance making an entry into a
port , station or locality in the Kingdom and departing therefrom. For convenience in controlling these
person , the competent official may issue them a certificate in accordance with the form as prescribed in
the Ministerial Regulations.
2. A citizen of a country with has its boundarie s adjacent to Thailand making at a temporary
journey across the border under compliance with the agreement between the Government of Thailand
and of that country.
3. A passenger of an international train hold ing a through ticket and making a transit journey
across Thailand under compliance with the international agreement between the Government of Thailand
and of the country concerned , including the conductor and crew of such train.

Section 27. Original section/article: 14. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The Minister shall have power to issue public notice in the Government Gazette requiring
the alien entering into the Kingdom to have with either money or bond , or shall have power to order an
exemption under any condition. The public notice issued by the Minister under the first paragraph of this
section shall not apply to children under the age of twelve years.

Section 28. Original section/article: 15. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Aliens entering into the Kingdom under bellow listed status shall be exempted from
complying out the function or the prohibition under

Section 29. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) , (4) and (5) and

Section 30. Original section/article: 18. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 2.
1. Persons on Diplomatic Missions sent by a Fo reign country’ s government to perform duties in
the Kingdom ; or which are travelling through the Kingdom to perform duties in another country.
2. Consular parties and their employees sent by a foreign country’s government to perform
duties in the Kingdom to perform duties in another country.
3. A person which a foreign country’s government has sent to perform duties or missions in the
Kingdom with the approval of the Thai Government.
4. A person performing duties or missions in the Kingdom for the government of Thailand in
accordance with the agreements of the Government of Thailand and of the foreign country involved.
5. Officer Chief of International Organizations or Department performing duties in Thailand ,
which are protected by law or which the Thai Government has concurred with , including officer ,
specialists or other persons , who are appointed or responsibilities in the Kingdom for said Organization
or Departments or for the Thai Government under an agreement with the Thai Government has made
with such International Organizations or Departments.
6. Spouses or children under patronage or being a part of theallow household of persons under
paragraph ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) or ( 5 )
7. Privates servants travelling fr om foreign countries to work at the residence of the persons
under (1) or any person having a document showing status equivalent to that of diplomatic immunity , in
accordance with the agreement that the Thai Government has made with Foreign Governments or with
International Organizations or Departments.
8. Case ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 6 ) or ( 7 ) shall be in compliance with agreements made between
concerned countries and with mutual reciprocation.
The competent official shall have power to question or examine evidence for the purpose of
ascertaining whether a person entering into the Kingdom is under the exemptions provided for this
Section.

Section 31. Original section/article: 16. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance where for reason of national welfare or safeguarding the public peace ,
culture , morality , or welfare , or when the Minister considers it improper to allow any alien or any group
of alien to enter into the Kingdom , the Minister shall have power to exclude said alien or group aliens
from entering into the Kingdom.

Section 32. Original section/article: 17. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In certain special cases , the Minister , by the Cabinet approval , may permit any alien or any
group of aliens to stay in the Kingdom under certain conditions , or may conditions , or may consider
exemption from being conformity with this Act.

Section 33. Original section/article: 18. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The competent official shall have power to inspect persons entering into or leaving the
Kingdom ,
In light of this provision , persons entering into or departing from the Kingdom must submit a list
of items as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations , and must be inspected and approval by the
competent official assigned to the Immigration check point.

Section 34. Original section/article: 19. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In inspecting and considering whether an alien is forbidden from entering the Kingdom , the
competent official shall have authority to allow said alien to stay at an appropriate place after promising
that he will present himself to the competent official to received his orders on a specified date , time and
place ; or if the competent official deems appropriate he may call for a bond or call fir both bond and
security ; or the competent official may detain said aliens at any place for paragraph , the competent
official shall have power to call a person , who’s statement the competent official has reason to believe
may be useful in case of doubt , to give oath , testimony , or statements to the competent officials.
If there is reason to suspect that any alien has entered into the Kingdom for the purpose
committing acts specified in

Section 35. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
( 8 ) or for the purpose taking past therein , or any woman or child
enters into the Kingdom for a temporary stay by ordering said person ( s) to report in person to him and
answer his questions ; or the competent official may officials at the Local Police Station where said
person ( s ) will reside , within a period of time prescribed by the competent official which shall not be less
than seven day intervals.

Section 36. Original section/article: 20. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance where the competent official has detained any alien under the provision of

Section 37. Original section/article: 19. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, the competent official shall have grounds to detain said alien in so far as it is necessary ,
under the circumstance but not more than forty – eight hours beginning at the time of this ( detainee’s )
arrival at the office of the competent official. In case of necessary , the period of forty – eight house may
be extended , but not to exceed seven days , and the competent official shall record the reason foe such
extension.
If it necessary to detain any alien longer than the period of time provided in the first paragraph ,
the competent official shall apply to the Court for an order to further detain said alien and Court may order
further detention , if found necessary , not exceeding twelve days at each application. However , if the
Court deems it appropriate , the Court may order that said alien be temporary.

Section 38. Original section/article: 21. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The expense of detaining an alien shall , under

Section 39. Original section/article: 19. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
and 20 be charge to the account
of the owner , or person in charge , of the conveyance bringing the alien into the Kingdom. If there
appears to be on owner or person in charge of the conveyance , or the alien concerned entered into the
Kingdom without coming by way of a conveyance , the expense shall be charged to his ( alien’s) account.

Section 40. Original section/article: 22. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance where the competent official discovers that an alien is forbidden from
entering into the Kingdom under the provisions of

Section 41. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, the competent official shall have authority
to order said alien by written notification to leave the Kingdom. If said alien is not satisfied with the
competent official’s order , he ( alien ) may appeal to the Minister. The order of the Minister shall be final.
Appealling cases are not allowed under

Section 42. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) or (10) , but if the Minister does not have an order
within seven days beginning from the date of submitting the appeal, it is considered that the Minister has
ordered that said alien is not forbidden from entering into the Kingdom under

Section 43. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Appeal must be
submitted the competent official within forty – eight hours beginning from the time of received said order
from the competent official and must comply with the pattern ( and a fee must be paid ) an provided in the
Ministerial Regulations. When appeal is submitted by the alien concerned , the competent official shall
delay deportation of said alien until an order for said case is receive from the Minister. While processing
under order of the competent official or while waiting for an order from the Minister , as the case may be ,
the provisions of

Section 44. Original section/article: 20. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall not be applied.
Chapter 3
Conveyance

Section 45. Original section/article: 23. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The owner or person in charge of a conveyance must bring the conveyance into or out of
the Kingdom thought the proper route , immigration check point , port boundaries station , or area , and
time , which the minister shall publish in the Government Gazette.

Section 46. Original section/article: 24. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The competent official shall have power to check conveyances entering into or leaving the
Kingdom ; or to check conveyances where there is reason to suspect that passengers are being taken in
or out of the Kingdom; except in the case that such conveyance is being used for the official activities of
the Government of Thailand or of a Foreign Country for which permission is granted by Government of
Thailand.

Section 47. Original section/article: 25. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: When any conveyance enters onto or leaves the Kingdom , the owner or person in charge of
said conveyance must report the date and time of arrival or departure of the conveyance at the port,
station , or area in accordance with the pattern outlined in the Ministerial Regulation to the competent
official at the office of Immigration controlling said port , station or area within the specified time as
published by the competent official .
In the instance that the provision of Para 1 . cannot be carried out , the owner or person in charge
of the conveyance shall , in person , as soon as possible , report to the competent official at the nearest
Immigration Office.
In making a report of the arrival or departure of conveyances under the provision of this Section ,
the Minister , if he deems it proper , may exempt any conveyance , or place it under new stipulations.

Section 48. Original section/article: 26. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The owner or person in charge of any conveyance entering into or leaving the Kingdom
must submit a list ( passenger and crew ) in accordance with the pattern prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulations and must be inspected by the competent official at the place and under conditions published
by the Director General.
In the instance that an inspection must be conducted at any other place , which is other than the
place published by the Director General under Para. of this Section , such inspection must be approved
by the Director General or a competent official deputized by the Director General.

Section 49. Original section/article: 27. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: For the purpose of inspection , the owner or person in charge of any conveyance into or
leaving the Kingdom shall be required to do as follows :
1. Prevent passengers or crew from leaving the conveyance or any quarters arranged with the
approval of the competent official without the permission of the competent official , except in the instance
that the person in charge and crew of the conveyance are the same person , such a person is allowed to
leave the conveyance in the status of the person in charge for her purpose of notifying the competent
official as outlined under

Section 50. Original section/article: 25. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
If the passengers or crew of said conveyance fail to comply with or otherwise cause a disturbance
to , the provisions of

Section 51. Original section/article: 29. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para. 2 shall be applied Mutatis Mutandis. The expense of talking action
under the provisions of this paragraph shall be charged to the account of the owner or person in charged
of the conveyance.
2. Submit to the competent official a list of passengers and crew , including the person in charge
of the conveyance according to the pattern as prescribed by the Ministerial Regulations and within the
period of time fixed by the Director General or a competent official.
3. Cooperate fully with the competent offici al in following the provisions of this Act.
The provisions of this Section shall apply to the owner or person in change of the conveyance from or to
the border , and conveying passengers into the kingdom or talking passenger to the border for the
purpose of leaving the Kingdom. This applies to passenger entering into or leaving the Kingdom only.
Section : 28 While in the Kingdom. If there is an increase or production in the number of crew members
or a charge in crew members of the conveyance or if any crew of the conveyances shall not leave the
Kingdom , the owner of the conveyance , or the person in charge of the conveyance in the instance
where there is no conveyance owner in the Kingdom , shall notify the competent official in accordance
with the pattern as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.
In the instance where the crew of the conveyance shall not leave the Kingdom as stated in the
Para 1. , and the crew of the conveyance are aliens , the owner or person in charge of the conveyance ,
as the case may be , shall take such person ( s) and tern them over to the competent official as soon as
possible.
If the said crew of the conveyance resists the owner or person in charge of conveyance in the
course of complying with the provisions of Para 2. , the provision of

Section 52. Original section/article: 29. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para 2. shall be applied
Mutatis Mutandis . The expense for carrying out this paragraph shall be charged to the account of the
owner or person in charge of the conveyance.

Section 53. Original section/article: 29. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: When the competent official discovers any illegal alien or has reason to suspect any alien of
being illegal for entering into the Kingdom , the competent official shall have authority to order the owner
or person in charge to the conveyance to detain said alien in the conveyance or to send said alien to any
place for the purpose of interrogation by the competent official or else deporting said alien.
In the instance that said alien resists , or cause a disturbance , the owner or person in charge of
the conveyance of his agent may ask the local administrative or police officials to detain or arrest said
alien. If assistance from such official cannot be immediately rendered , the owner of person in charge of
the conveyance shall have authority to arrest said alien over to local administrative or police officials ,
who shall without delay , turn said alien concerned over to the competent official for the purpose of
carrying out this Act.
The expense concerning action taken under this Section shall be charged to the account of the
owner or person in charge of the conveyance.

Section 54. Original section/article: 30. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance where there is reason to suspect that a violation of this Act has taken place ,
the competent official shall have the authority to order the owner or person in charge of conveyance to
stop the conveyance or to take the conveyance to any place necessary for inspection.
The order under Para.1 maybe carried out by giving a signal by any other means which is
understandable.

Section 55. Original section/article: 31. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: During the time any conveyance enters into the Kingdom , beginning from the time said
conveyance comes through the Kingdom until the competent official will complete his inspection , no
person , who is not an official , shall be permitted to board said conveyance or to bring another
conveyance alongside or to enter the area or place arranged for inspection , except as authorized by the
competent official.
The owner or person in charge of the conveyance shall not ignore or allow any one to do so in
accordance with Para1.

Section 56. Original section/article: 32. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance of a conveyance which is leaving the kingdom but during or after the time of
inspection by the competent official , said conveyance is still within the Kingdom. No person except the
competent official shall be allowed to board said conveyance or bring another conveyance alongside the
conveyance in question , unless authorized by the competent official.
The provisions of Para. 1 shall be applied to the area or place which is arranged for the purpose
of inspection during the time when the person who is to leave the Kingdom has not yet boarded the
conveyance.
The owner or person in charge of the conveyance shall not ignore these requirements or allow
anyone else to act under this Section.

Section 57. Original section/article: 33. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the instance that a competent official has to conduct an inspection of the conveyance
during non – duty hours ; or at any other place besides the one published by the Director General under

Section 58. Original section/article: 26. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para. 1 : or to go outside his office in order to detain such conveyance ; or has to wait to
conduct an inspection of the conveyance without it being the fault of the competent official , the owner or
person in charge of the conveyance shall have to pay a fee for such services and other expenses as
prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.
Chapter 4
Temporary Stay in the Kingdom

Section 59. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: aliens entering into the kingdom for a temporary stay may enter for the below listed activities
;
1. Diplomatic or Consular Missions.
2. Performance of official duties.
3. Touring
4. Sporting
5. Business
6. Investing under the concurrence of the Ministries and Departments concerned.
7. Investing or other activities relating to investing subject to the provisions of the law on
investment promotion.
8. Transit journey.
9. Being the person in charge of the crew of a conveyance coming to port, station , or area in
the Kingdom.
10. Study or observation.
11. Mass media.
12. Missionary work under the concurrence of the Ministries and departments concerned.
13. Scientific research or training or teach in a Research Institute in the Kingdom.
14. The practice of skilled handicraft or as a specialist
15. Other activities as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.

Section 60. Original section/article: 35. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The Director General or the competent official deputized by the Director General shall have
the authority to permit the alien , who entered to stay temporarily in the Kingdom under

Section 61. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, to
remain in the Kingdom under any prescribed conditions. The periods of time which one is authorized to
stay in the Kingdom are as Follows :
1. Not exceeding 30 days for a case under

Section 62. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(4) , (8) and ( 9 )
2. Not exceeding 90 days for a case under

Section 63. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(3)
3. Not exceeding one year for a case under

Section 64. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(5) , (10), (11) , (12), (13) , (14) and (15)
4. Not exceeding two years for a case under

Section 65. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(6)
5. As deemed necessary for a case under

Section 66. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) and (2)
6. As deemed appropriate by the Commission of Investment Promotion , for a case under

Section 67. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(7)
If it is deemed necessary that the aliens have to stay in the Kingdom Longer than the period of
time prescribed in the paragraphs (1) (2) (3) and (4) the Director General shall consider granting the
aliens extension of stay for a period not exceeding one year for each time. After granting permission , the
Director General shall report to the Commission for their information , with the reason , within seven days
from the date of granting.
Each time when applying for an extension of temporary stay in the Kingdom , the alien shall
submit an application and pay the fees as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations. While waiting for
directives the alien may be permitted to stay.

Section 68. Original section/article: 36. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Where there is a proper reason , the Director General or the Immigration Commission shall
have power to revoke permission previously authorized the alien to stay temporary in the Kingdom ,
whether or not the Director General , or the official deputized by the Director General , has granted such
permission.
In the case the Director General has ordered permission to be revoked , the alien whose
permission has been revoked may appeal such orders to the Immigration Commission. Order of the
Immigration Commission will be final.
The appeal of the Director General’s order under paragraph 2 of this Section shall be submitted
to the competent official within forty – eight hours from the time of acknowledgement of such order from
the Director General and must be complied with from and fees as prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulations.
After cancellation of the temporary entry permit in reference to the provision of paragraph 1 of this
Section , the alien must be notified by a written notice. In the case a written notice cannot be sent to the
alien , yet the competent official has post a notice to the alien’s place of stay , as previously notified , and
forty – eight hours , have passed , it is assumed that the alien has received said notice.

Section 69. Original section/article: 37. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: An alien having received a temporary entry permit into the Kingdom must comply with the
following :
1. Shall not engage in the occupation or tempor ary or employment unless authorized by the
Director General. or competent official deputized by the Director General . If , in any case , there is a law
concerning alien employment provided hereafter , the granting of work privileges must comply with the
law concerned.
2. Shall stay at the place as indicated to t he competent official. Where there is proper reason
that he cannot stay at the place as indicated to the competent official, he shall notify the competent official
of the change in residence , within 24 hours from the time of removing to said place.
3. Shall notify the police official of the local polic e station where such alien resides, within twenty
– four hours from the time of arrival. In the case of change in residence in which new residence is not
located the same area with the former police stations , such alien must notify the police official of the
police station for that area within twenty – four hours from the time of arrival.
4. If the alien travels to any pr ovince and will stay there longer than twenty – four hours , such
alien must notify the police official of the police station for that area within forty – eight hours from the time
of arrival.
5. If the alien stays in the Kingdom longer than ninety days, such alien must notify the
competent official at the Immigration Division , in writing , concerning his place of stay , as soon as
possible upon expiration of ninety days. The alien is required to do so every ninety days. Where there is
an Immigration Office , the alien may notify a competent Immigration Official of that office.
The provision of ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) shall not apply to any cases under

Section 70. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
by any conditions as
prescribed by the Director General.
In making notification under this Section , the alien may make notification in person or send a
letter of notification to the competent official , in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the
Director General .

Section 71. Original section/article: 38. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The house – master , the owner or the possessor of the residence , or the hotel manager
where the alien , receiving permission to stay temporary in the Kingdom has stayed , must notify the
competent official of the Immigration Office located in the same area with that hours , dwelling place or
hotel, within 24 hours from the time of arrival of the alien concerned. If there is no Immigration Office
located in that area , the local police official for that area must be notified.
In case the house , dwelling place , or hotel where the alien has stayed under provision of Para.1
is located within the Bangkok area , such notification must be reported to the competent official at the
Immigration Division.
Making notification , in reference to the Para 1 and 2 of this Section , must comply with
regulations prescribed by the Director General.

Section 72. Original section/article: 39. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: After having received permission for temporary entry into the Kingdom , if the alien leaves
the Kingdom it is considered that his temporary entry permit has expired. But , if prior to leaving the alien
is granted permission to return by the competent official , and the alien returning is not excluded from
entry under

Section 73. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
and the period of time previously authorized has not expired , the alien shall be
authorized to stay in the Kingdom for the rest of the authorized time.
In asking permission for re – entry , the alien must submit an application in accordance with the
form and pay a fee in accordance with the rate and regulations as prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulations.
Chapter 5
Entering to take Resedence in the Kingdom

Section 74. Original section/article: 40. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Subject to the provisions of

Section 75. Original section/article: 42. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, 43 and 51 , the Minister , by the approval of the
Cabinet , shall have power to publish , in the Government Gazette , immigration quotas from year to year
( not exceeding 100 persons per year from each country and not exceeding 50 persons who have no
nationality ).
For the purpose of fixing immigration quotas , all the colonies of a country or each self –
governing country shall be recognized as one country.

Section 76. Original section/article: 41. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Alien shall not be allowed to take up residence in the Kingdom unless authorized by the
Immigration Commission and by the approval of the Minister , within the immigration quota limitation as
prescribed by the Minister in accordance with the provision of

Section 77. Original section/article: 40. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, and providing that the alien
concerned has received a Residence Certificate in accordance with the provision of

Section 78. Original section/article: 47. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
For the most benefit of the country in allowing the alien to take up residence in the Kingdom , the
Immigration Commission shall fix regulations concerning qualification of the alien entering to take
residence in the Kingdom of Thailand by considering income , property , knowledge , technical ,
professional ability , and family status of such alien in comparison with the Thai national populace ,
considering condition of national security or other appropriate conditions. So it can be used as a
regulation and a condition to consider in allowing the alien to take residence in the Kingdom.
In applying for a Residence Certificate , the alien may apply before coming into the Kingdom or
apply after he has been granted permission to stay temporarily in the Kingdom
The Committee can stipulate any requirement to an alien under

Section 79. Original section/article: 34. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
who is holding a
temporarily permit of stay and applying for a permanent resident visa.
A permanent resident visa of alien obtained prior to his entry into the Kingdom will be effective
when that alien enters the Kingdom to process the relevant formalities and obtains approval from the
authorities indicated under

Section 80. Original section/article: 18. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, Para. 2 that alien must not be the person under

Section 81. Original section/article: 44. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, and must possess a residence certificate under

Section 82. Original section/article: 47. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
The alien is allowed to stay
temporarily in the Kingdom during the period of processing the residence certificates.

Section 83. Original section/article: 40. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
concerning immigration quotas as published by the Minister
shall not apply to the persons listed below :
1. An alien who previously entered to take up residence in the Kingdom and re – entered into
the Kingdom in accordance with

Section 84. Original section/article: 48. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 51.
2. A woman having Thai nationality by birth who has renounced Thai nationality in the case of
marriage to an alien.
3. A child of an alien father and mother born while the mother was out of the Kingdom and the
mother has application of departure for return in accordance with the provision of

Section 85. Original section/article: 48. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
When the
child entering into the Kingdom with father or mother who returns within the prescribed time as state in
the application of departure for return and the child is under one year old.

Section 86. Original section/article: 43. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: When any alien brings foreign not less than ten million baht , for investment in the Kingdom
and the Immigration Commission has considered that it is not contradictory to the provisions of this Act ,
the Immigration Commission , with the concurrence of the Minister, shall allow said alien to take up
residence in the Kingdom over and the above number of aliens as published by the Minister under

Section 87. Original section/article: 40. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, but not to exceed 5% of said amount each year.
For the purpose of examination of foreign currency brought in for investment, the alien who is
allowed to take up residence under Para , must display financial status for the period of not less than two
years , but not more than five years, in accordance with the regulation prescribed by the Immigration
Commission , or as the Immigration Commission may deem appropriate.

Section 88. Original section/article: 44. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: No alien is authorized to take up residence in the Kingdom, if it appears that said alien :
1. has been punished with imprisonment by judgement or legal order of a Thai or foreign
country court, except a minor offense committed by negligence , or an offense exempted as prescribed by
the Ministerial Regulations.
2. Is unable to earn his living because of mental defect or physical infirmity or having any
diseases as prescribed by Ministerial Regulations.
The provision of (2) shall not apply to an alien father, mother, husband, wife or child of the one having
domicile within the Kingdom and is able to support each other.

Section 89. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: If the alien who has been granted to stay temporarily in the Kingdom wishes to take up
residence in the Kingdom , he must submit an application as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations to
the Immigration Office in the area , the application must be submitted to the nearest Immigration Office.
When the Immigration Commission considers that the quota is not over subscribed then notification
prescribed by the Minister , in accordance with

Section 90. Original section/article: 40. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 43 as the case may be or the alien in the
person under

Section 91. Original section/article: 44. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, the alien may be allowed to take up residence in the Kingdom under the
concurrence of the Minister.
When the alien applies for residence in the Kingdom and the authorized period of time granted
him to stay temporarily in the Kingdom has expired during consideration. The alien may apply at the same
Immigration Office for an extension of stay till the date the result of the consideration will be made know
to him. The Immigration Commission or competent official deputized by Immigration Commission, shall
have power to grant permission by affixing any conditions.
In submitting application in reference to the first paragraph , the applicant must pay a fee as fixed
in the Ministerial Regulations.

Section 92. Original section/article: 46. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien entering into the Kingdom, and if while waiting to receive a Residence Certificate
in reference to

Section 93. Original section/article: 41. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or while waiting to know the result of consideration of the Immigration
Commission , or of competent official deputized by the Immigration Commission under

Section 94. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para
2.,leaves the Kingdom , it is recognized that a leniency for temporary stay in the Kingdom in reference to

Section 95. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.2 is expired. Unless prior to departing the Kingdom the alien
concerned has been granted permission to return by a competent official, and he has returned within the
period of prescribed time, the alien concerned will be allowed to stay for the rest of the prescribed time.

Section 96. Original section/article: 47. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The alien who is allowed to take up residence in the Kingdom must apply for a Residence
Certificate from the Director General or from a competent official deputized by the Director General within
30 days from the date receiving written notification from a competent official.
In the case that the alien, whose age is under 12 years, is granted permission to take up
Residence in the Kingdom , the person with guardian power or the guardian must apply for a Residence
Certificate on behalf of the alien concerned. The Director General ,or competent official deputized by the
Director General , shall issue a separate Residence Certificate or together with the person having
guardian power or the guardian.
If the alien concerned fails to apply for a Residence Certificate within prescribed period of time,
under Para.1 of this Section , the Immigration Commission may hold back issuing of permission to reside
in the Kingdom. If so, a leniency for temporary stay in the Kingdom in reference to

Section 97. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.2, would be expired.
The applicant for a Residence Certificate must pay a fee as prescribed in the Ministerial
Regulations.

Section 98. Original section/article: 48. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: A residence Certificate is of permanent validity, but it expires when the holder leaves the
Kingdom , unless prior to departing , the holder has his departure for return document endorsed by a
competent official in accordance with

Section 99. Original section/article: 50. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
In such a case , if the certificate holder returns to the
Kingdom within one year from the date of endorsement and he is not excluded from entry according to

Section 100. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 44 , a Residence Certificate shall be considered still valid.
The provisions of

Section 101. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) concerning visa , and (2) and (3) and (4) shall not apply to the
first paragraph of this Section.

Section 102. Original section/article: 49. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The holder or person who has in his possession a Residence Certificate not used in
reference to

Section 103. Original section/article: 48. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
must return it to the competent official.
The person who has in his possession a Residence Certificate of a dead alien must return it to
the competent official.

Section 104. Original section/article: 50. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien having lawfully entered and being a resident in the Kingdom and wishes to leave
the Kingdom with intention to return, shall :
1. Present his Residence Certific ate to the competent official for endorsement of departure for
return in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.
2. If no Residence Certificate has been issued ,b ecause said alien was granted permission to
reside in the country before the regulation to obtain a Residence Certificate was in affect he must apply
for the same through the competent official and conform with (1),
3. If there is not enough space for endorsement in accordance with (1), the holder must change
his Residence Certificate in accordance to

Section 105. Original section/article: 52. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Document of departure for returns valid for one year from the date of endorsement made by the
competent official. The certificate holder can make as many departures and returns with the one year
period as he desire.
A fee must be paid as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations for notification of departure for
return and for issuing a residence Certificate in reference to (2).

Section 106. Original section/article: 51. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien who has formerly resided in the Kingdom but has no document of departure for
return or has a document of departure for return, but has not returned to the Kingdom in reference to the
time prescribed in

Section 107. Original section/article: 48. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
and the alien wishes to take up residence in the Kingdom again , he must
submit an application in accordance with the procedure as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations for
consideration and approval. When the Immigration Commission considers that the alien has reason and
proper excuse and he is not excluded from entry under

Section 108. Original section/article: 44. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, the alien may be
permitted to enter to take up residence in the Kingdom under the concurrence of the Minister, but the
alien has to receive a new Residence Certificate. The provision of

Section 109. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.2 shall be applied
Mutatis Mutandis while waiting for permission.
The provisions in

Section 110. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) concerning visa , (2),(3) and (9) shall not apply with the case as
provided in the first paragraph of this section.
The applicant must pay fees as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.

Section 111. Original section/article: 52. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever has lost documents issued under this Act, and wants to receive a substitute , or
wants to change a Residence Certificate in reference to

Section 112. Original section/article: 50. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(3) , when the competent official is
satisfied with the result of an investigation, a substitute or a change of Residence Certificate will be
issued. The applicant must pay fees as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations.
Chapter 6
Deportation of the Aliens

Section 113. Original section/article: 53. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: If it is learned at a late date that aliens who came to stay in the Kingdom are among the
persons excluded from entry because of any circumstance as prescribed in

Section 114. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(7) or (8)or (10) or

Section 115. Original section/article: 44. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or persons convicted under

Section 116. Original section/article: 63. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 64 , the Director General will
submit the matter to the Immigration Commission. If the Immigration Commission decides that the alien's
permission to stay in the Kingdom should be revoked, the Immigration Commission will submit their
opinion to the Minister for further consideration in revoking the Permission.

Section 117. Original section/article: 54. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien who enters or come to stay in the Kingdom without permission or when such
permission expires or is revoked , the competent official will deport such alien out of the Kingdom.
The provisions of

Section 118. Original section/article: 19. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
and 20 will be applied Mutatis Mutandis if in the case that
investigation for deportation in reference to Para.1 of this Section must be conducted.
In case there is an order of deportation for the alien; while waiting for the alien to be deported the
competent official may order the alien to stay at any prescribed place or he may order the alien to report
to him ( competent official ) according to a prescribed date, time ,and place with Security or with Security
and Bond. The competent official may also detain the alien at any given place as many be necessary.
The expense of detention shall be charged to the alien’s account.
The provision of this Section shall not apply to aliens entering and talking up residence in the
Kingdom before the enforcement of the Immigration Act B.C. 2480 [ 1937 ]

Section 119. Original section/article: 55. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Aliens being deported under this Act shall be sent back by any conveyance or route as the
competent official may consider appropriate.
The expense of deportation shall be charged to the owner or person in charge of the conveyance
which brought the alien into the Kingdom. If there appears to be no owner or person in charge of the
conveyance, the alien committing the act against the provisions of

Section 120. Original section/article: 63. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 64 will have to pay the
expense of deportation. The competent official shall have power to ask for deportation expenses from one
of the aliens committing the offense or from all of them. However , if the alien concerned wishes to go by
and other conveyance or by an other route, at his own expense , the competent official may permit him to
do so.

Section 121. Original section/article: 56. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the case where there is an exemption from a visa for the alien, under

Section 122. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1), and
the alien has shown the competent official a ticket or any travel document of the owner of the conveyance
or the person in charge of the conveyance or evidence of any other person, in accordance with the
condition as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations, for the purpose of deporting from the Kingdom of
such alien, the competent official shall have power to order the owner of the conveyance , the person in
charge of the conveyance , or the person issuing a ticket, document or evidence , as the case may be,
not to cancel, return of alter the important vital statement on the said ticket, document or evidence, with or
without any conditions.
The order under Para.1 can be done by attaching to or by stamping in the said ticket, document
or evidence, when the competent official has ordered, if here is cancellation , return or alternation of the
important vital statement in the said ticket, document or evidence , finding it difference from the order
given by the competent official, the competent official shall have power to order the owner of the
conveyance , the person in charge of the conveyance, or the person issuing a ticket , document or
evidence , as the case may be , to conform with the former condition as indicated on the ticket, document
or evidence, for the purpose of deportation.
Chapter 7
Miscellaneous

Section 123. Original section/article: 57. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: For the purpose of Chapter 7 miscellaneous ; whoever claims his nationality is Thai and if
there is not enough evidence for the competent official to believe that he has Thai nationality , it is
presumed that such a person is an alien until he can prove other wise.
An application for proof of nationality under Para.1 of this Section will be submitted to the
competent official in the accordance with the form and fees as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations. If
such person does not satisfy the competent official’s order , he may apply to the Court asking for
consideration.
In the case where there is an application to the Court upon receiving and application, the Court
shall notify the Public Prosecutor, who may, in turn, have a right for objection thereto.

Section 124. Original section/article: 58. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien who has no lawful document for entering the Kingdom under

Section 125. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1); or
has no Residence Certificate under this Act; and also has no identification in accordance with the Law on
Alien registration, is considered to have entered into the Kingdom in violation to this Act.

Section 126. Original section/article: 59. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
:The Director General, or the competent official deputized by Director General, shall have the
authority to arrest and suppress any person violating this Act. They shall also have the authority to issue
a subpoena, warrant of arrest or search, make arrest , search , or detain. They shall also have the
authority to conduct inquiry into the offense against the provisions of this Act in the same manner as the
inquiry official under the Criminal Procedure Code.

Section 127. Original section/article: 60. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In any area where the Minister deems it proper to grant exemption from payment of any fees
under this Act, he shall have the authority to do so by making public notification in the Government
Gazette.
Chapter 8
Penalty

Section 128. Original section/article: 61. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever fails to comply with the written order under

Section 129. Original section/article: 10. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding 5,000 Baht.

Section 130. Original section/article: 62. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever fails to comply with the provisions of

Section 131. Original section/article: 18. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be
punished by imprisonment not exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht.
If the person committing an offense under Para.1, holds Thai citizenship he will be punished by a
fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht.

Section 132. Original section/article: 63. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever brings or takes an alien into the Kingdom or does anything which helps, assists ,
or facilitates an alien in making and entry into the Kingdom in contravention of this Act, shall be punished
by imprisonment not exceeding 10 years and a fine not exceeding 100,000 Baht.
When any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 133. Original section/article: 23. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, and the conveyance carried the aliens entering into the Kingdom in contravention of this Act,
it is first presumed that the owner or person in charge of the conveyance has committed an offense under
Para.1 of this Section unless it can be proved that the owner or person in charge was unable to know of
the presence of said aliens in the conveyance, even though proper caution was exercised.

Section 134. Original section/article: 64. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever know of any alien entering into the Kingdom in contravention of this Act, and
harbours, hides or in any manner assists said alien to evade arrest, shall be punished by imprisonment
not exceeding 5 years and a fine not exceeding 50,000 Baht.
Whoever allows an alien entering into the Kingdom in contravention of this Act, to stay with him, it
is first presumed that said person is aware that the alien concerned entered into the Kingdom in
contravention of this Act, unless it can be proved that he does not know, even though proper caution has
been exercised.
If the act committed under Para.1 of this Section is done in order to assist his father, mother,
child, husband or wife, the offender may not necessarily be punished by the Court.

Section 135. Original section/article: 65. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 136. Original section/article: 23. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a fine not exceeding 50,000
Baht or both.

Section 137. Original section/article: 66. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 138. Original section/article: 27. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(2) shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding
10,000 Baht or both.

Section 139. Original section/article: 67. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 140. Original section/article: 27. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) Para.1 or fails to cooperate with the competent official accordance with the provision of

Section 141. Original section/article: 27. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(3) shall be punished with a fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht.

Section 142. Original section/article: 68. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 143. Original section/article: 28. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.1, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 10,000 Baht.

Section 144. Original section/article: 69. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to comply with the provision of

Section 145. Original section/article: 28. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.2 shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 10,000 Baht. for each crew
member of the conveyance that he has not turned over to the competent official.

Section 146. Original section/article: 70. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any conveyance that has an alien passenger who is excludable from entry into the Kingdom
according to

Section 147. Original section/article: 12. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1), the owner or person in charge of the conveyance shall be punished with a fine
not exceeding 20,000 Baht for each alien.

Section 148. Original section/article: 71. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to obey the order given by the
competent official under

Section 149. Original section/article: 29. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.1, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 5 years
and a fine not exceeding 50,000 Baht.
If as a result of non – compliance with the provision of paragraph 1,thus causing the alien to
escape , the said owner or person in charge shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 10 years
and a fine not exceeding 100,000 Baht.

Section 150. Original section/article: 72. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien, who escapes from a conveyance or escapes while on the way to any destination
when the competent official has told the owner or person in change of the conveyance to detain the alien
or to take the alien , in accordance with the provision of

Section 151. Original section/article: 29. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or he escapes while under detention
or the control of the competent official, said alien shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht or both.

Section 152. Original section/article: 73. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any owner or person in charge of a conveyance who fails to obey the order given by the
competent official under

Section 153. Original section/article: 30. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a fine
not exceeding 50,000 Baht or both.

Section 154. Original section/article: 74. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever fails to comply with the provisions of

Section 155. Original section/article: 31. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 32 shall be punished with a fine
not exceeding 10,000 Baht.

Section 156. Original section/article: 75. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien, who fails to comply with the provisions of

Section 157. Original section/article: 37. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1) shall be punished with
imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or a fine not exceeding 10,000Baht or both.

Section 158. Original section/article: 76. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien, alien, who fails to comply with the provisions of

Section 159. Original section/article: 37. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(2),(3),(4)or(5) shall be
punished with a fine not exceeding 5,000 Baht and with and additional fine not exceeding 200 Baht for
each day which passes until the law is complied with.

Section 160. Original section/article: 77. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever fails to comply with the provision of

Section 161. Original section/article: 38. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, shall be punished with a fine not
exceeding 2,000 Baht. If said person is a hotel manager, he shall be punished with a fine from 2,000 Baht
to 10,000 Baht.

Section 162. Original section/article: 78. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever fails to comply with the provision of

Section 163. Original section/article: 49. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
shall be punished with a fine not
exceeding 1,000 Baht.

Section 164. Original section/article: 79. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The owner, or person in change of a conveyance, or person issuing a ticket, document or
evidence , who fails to comply with the order given by the competent official under

Section 165. Original section/article: 56. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
,shall be
punished with imprisonment not exceeding 6 months or a fine not exceeding 500 Baht for each day until
said alien shall leave the Kingdom but not exceeding 50,000 Baht or both.

Section 166. Original section/article: 80. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Whoever destroys an order given by the competent official under

Section 167. Original section/article: 56. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
Para.2,or
causes such order to be blurred with the intention of not letting the owner of the conveyance ,or the
person in change of conveyance, or the person issuing the ticket, document or evidence to receive said
order of the competent official, shall be punished with a fine not exceeding 50,000 Baht.

Section 168. Original section/article: 81. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien who stay in the Kingdom without permission or with permission expired or revoked
shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding two years or a fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht or
both.

Section 169. Original section/article: 82. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien who evades the service of an order issued by the Minister Immigration
Commission, Director General, or the competent official designated by the Immigration Commission,
which is required to be served upon him [alien] under this Act, shall be punished with a fine not exceeding
5,000 Baht.
If the order as stated in Para.1 is for deportation the offender shall be punished with imprisonment
not exceeding two years and fine not exceeding 20,000 Baht.

Section 170. Original section/article: 83. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In the case where the offenders, who shall be punished under this Act are a juristic person,
managing director, manager, or representative of such juristic person, they will be punished in
accordance with the penalty provided for such offenses unless they can prove that they are not involved
in the commission of an offense by said juristic persons.

Section 171. Original section/article: 84. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: In all offenses under this Act, except the provisions of

Section 172. Original section/article: 63. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
, 64, 71
and 82 Para.2. The settlement Commission ,consisting of the Police Department’s Director General or
Representative, the Public Prosecution Department’s Director General or Representative, and the
Immigration Division’s Commander or Representative, as the, members shall have the authority to assign
duty of settlement to the Inquiry Official or the competent official by fixing a settlement rule or any
conditions as the Settlement Commission my deem proper.
When the offender has paid the fine as stipulate, the case shall be deemed settled under the
Criminal Procedure Code.
Transitory Provisions

Section 173. Original section/article: 85. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: It is recognized that any alien who is authorized to stay temporarily in the Kingdom on the
date that this Act comes into force is one who has been permitted to stay under this Act, but said alien will
be entitled to the rights and benefits only as stated in the previous application.

Section 174. Original section/article: 86. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: Any alien allowed to stay temporarily in the Kingdom and who has stayed more than ninety
days on the date that this Act comes into force, shall notify the competent official under

Section 175. Original section/article: 37. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(5)
within 7 days from the date that this Act comes into force.

Section 176. Original section/article: 87. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: The house master, owner, or possessor of a dwelling place, or a hotel manager, who has
allowed an alien to remain temporarily in the Kingdom on the date that this Act comes into force. Shall
notify the competent official under

Section 177. Original section/article: 38. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
within 30 days from the date that this Act comes into force.

Section 178. Original section/article: 88. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: It recognized that a Residence Certificate, issued under the law on Immigration before the
date that this Act comes into force and still valid, will be valid as the Residence Certificate issued under
this Act.

Section 179. Original section/article: 89. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: It is recognized that the endorsement of departure for return, stamped on the alien’s
Residence Certificate by the competent official before the date that this Act comes into force, is remain
valid as the endorsement issued under this Act.

Section 180. Original section/article: 90. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: It is recognized that an alien who is detained for deportation on the date that this Act comes
into force, is viewed as one who is detained for deportation under the provision of this Act.

Section 181. Original section/article: 91. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: It is recognized that all alien’s applications pending consideration on the date that this Act
comes into force are viewed as applications submitted under the provisions of this Act.

Section 182. Original section/article: 92. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
: All ministerial regulations, regulations, orders, or resolutions of the Immigration Commission
under the Immigration Act B.E. 2493 (1950),revised by the Second Immigration Act B.E. 249 (1954),
which were still in force before the date that this Act came into force, are still in force if they are not in
contravention to this Act, until it would have the ministerial regulation, regulations, orders, or the
resolutions of the Immigration Commission under this Act come into force.
Rate of Fees Services Charges and other Expenses Fees
1. Appeal in reference to

Section 183. Original section/article: 22. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each person not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
2. Application for extension of temporary stay in the Kingdom in reference to

Section 184. Original section/article: 35. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each person, each time, not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
3. Appeal in reference to

Section 185. Original section/article: 36. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each person not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
4. Application for each re – entry permit, for holde rs of any visa application of entry, under

Section 186. Original section/article: 39. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
- each person, each re – entry, not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
5. Application for residency in the Kingdom in reference to

Section 187. Original section/article: 45. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each person not exceeding 2,000.00 Baht.
6. Aertificate of Residence in reference to

Section 188. Original section/article: 47. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
or 51;
- each certificate not exceeding 50,000.00 Baht.
In the case the applicant for a Residence Certificate is the spouse or the child who is not sui juris of
the alien talking residence in the Kingdom or of the person whose nationality is Thai;
- each certificate not exceeding 25,000 Baht.
7. Endorsement of departure for returning in reference to

Section 189. Original section/article: 50. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(1);
- each person not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
8. Certificate of Residence in reference to

Section 190. Original section/article: 50. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(2);
- each certificate not exceeding 5,000.00 Baht.
9. Document issued in reference to

Section 191. Original section/article: 52. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each document not exceeding 500.00 Baht.
10. Application for proof of nationality in reference to

Section 192. Original section/article: 57. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
;
- each person not exceeding 200.00 Baht.
Fee for Services and other expenses
1. Inspection of a conveyance during non – dut y hours ; if the conveyance has no passengers;
- each conveyance, each time, not exceeding 200.00 Baht.
2. If the conveyance has passengers, the fee will be increased on a per person basis;
- each passenger not exceeding 10.00 Baht.
3. Inspection of a conveyance at a place other t han prescribed by the Director General in accordance
with

Section 193. Original section/article: 26. Source: Immigration Act B.E. 2522 (1979).
(Para.1)
- each conveyance, each day , not exceeding 200.00 Baht.
4. Waiting for inspection of conveyance which is not the official’s fault;
- each day not exceeding 200.00 Baht.
5. Going out of the office for controlling a conveyance ;
- each conveyance, each day, not exceeding 200.00 Baht.
ที่มา http://www.imm3.police.go.th/eng/eng_law.html
