Vietnam source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13
Category: Consumer protection
Source URL: https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/17223
Note: WIPO Lex English text; useful for misleading advertising and service representations.

Section 1. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
er Express Database 
Nice Classification 
Vienna Classification 
Global Design Database 
International Designs Bulletin 
Hague Express Database 
Locarno Classification 
Lisbon Express Database 
Global Brand Database for GIs 
PLUTO Plant Variety Database 
GENIE Database 
WIPO-Administered Treaties 
WIPO Lex - IP Laws, Treaties & Judgments 
WIPO Standards 
IP Statistics 
WIPO Pearl (Terminology) 
WIPO Publications 
Country IP Profiles 
WIPO Knowledge Center 
World Intangible Investment Highlights 
WIPO Technology Trends 
Global Innovation Index 
World Intellectual Property Report 
PCT – The International Patent System 
ePCT 
Budapest – The International Microorganism Deposit System 
Madrid – The International Trademark System 
eMadrid

Section 2. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
er (armorial bearings, flags, state emblems) 
Hague – The International Design System 
eHague 
Lisbon – The International System of Appellations of Origin and Geographical Indications 
eLisbon 
UPOV PRISMA 
Mediation 
Arbitration 
Expert Determination 
Domain Name Disputes 
Centralized Access to Search and Examination (CASE) 
Digital Access Service (DAS) 
WIPO Pay 
Current Account at WIPO 
WIPO Assemblies 
Standing Committees 
Calendar of Meetings 
WIPO Webcast 
WIPO Official Documents 
Development Agenda 
Tailored Initiatives & Projects 
Collaborative Forums & Dialogues 
Innovation, Creativity and Development Acceleration Program 
IP for Impact 
National IP Strategies 
Cooperation Hub 
Technology and Innovation Support Centers (TISC) 
Technology Transfer 
Inventor Assistance Program 
WIPO GREEN 
WIPO's Pat-INFORMED 
Accessible Books Consortium 
WIPO for Creators 
WIPO Translate 
Speech-to-Text 
Classification Assistant 
Member States 
Observers 
Director General 
Activities by Unit 
External Offices 
Staff Positions 
Affiliated Personnel Positions 
Procurement 
Results & Budget 
Financial Reporting 
Oversight 
Arabic 
English 
Spanish 
French 
Russian 
Chinese 
Laws 
Treaties 
Judgments 
Browse By Jurisdiction 
Law No. 16/2012/QH13 of June 21, 2012, on Advertising, Viet Nam 
Back 
Latest Version in WIPO Lex 
Details 
Details 
Year of Version 
2013 
Dates 
Entry into force: 
January 1, 2013 
Adopted: 
June 21, 2012 
Type of Text 
Other Texts
Subject Matter 
Trademarks, 
Industrial Property
Subject Matter (secondary) 
Other
Available Materials
Main Text(s) 
Related Text(s) 
Main text(s) 
Main text(s) 
Vietnamese 
Luật quảng cáo số 16/2012/QH13 ngày 21/6/2012 
English 
Law No. 16/2012/QH13 of June 21, 2012, on Advertising 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Law No. 16/2012/QH13 of June 21, 2012, on Advertising 
﻿ 
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY -------- 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM Independence - Freedom - Happiness 
--------------- Law No. 16/2012/QH13 Hanoi, June 21, 2012 
LAW ON ADVERTISING
Pursuant to the Constitution 1992 of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam amended and supplemented under the Resolution No. 51/2001/QH10; 
The National Assembly promulgates the Law on Advertising 
Chapter I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 3. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Scope of regulation 
1. This Law specifies the advertising activities ; the rights and obligations of organizations and individuals participating in advertising activities; the State management of advertising.
2. The political propagation and dissemination are not regulated by this Law.

Section 4. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Interpretation of terms In this Law, the following terms are construed as follows:
1. Advertising is the employment of various means in order to present the public with the profitable products, goods and service; non-profitable products and services; organizations and individuals trading and providing the presented products, goods and services, except for news, social policies; personal information.
2. Profitable services are services aiming to make profit for the organizations and individuals that provide such services; non-profit services are services serving the social interests that do not make profit for the organizations and individuals that provide such services.
3. Advertisements include the contents and forms of advertising demonstrated using graphics, sounds, voices, text, symbols, colors, lights and similar forms.
4. Advertising promotions are activities of seeking and boosting the opportunity to sign the advertising contract.
5. Advertisers are organizations and individuals that demand to advertise their products, goods and services, or to advertise themselves.
6. Advertising service providers are organizations and individuals that perform one, a number of, or all the phases of an advertising process under the advertising contract with the advertiser.
7. Advertisement publishers are organizations and individuals using means of advertising under their management to present the advertisements to the public, including the press, publishers, website owners, organizers of sports events and cultural programs, and the organizations and individuals using other means of advertising.
8. Advertisement conveyors are people that directly bring the advertisements to the public or display the advertisements on their bodies in forms of wearing, hanging, sticking, drawing or similar forms.
9. Advertisement receivers are people that receive information from the advertisements via means of advertising.
10. Advertisement duration is the duration of broadcasting an advertisement on a channel, a TV program, and radio program; the advertisement duration in the total duration of a sports event or cultural program; the advertisement duration in a audio, video record, and other technological devices.
11. The advertisement area is the part displaying the advertisements on newspapers, video newspapers, electronics newspapers, websites, publications, billboards, means of transport or other similar means of advertising
12. Special products, goods and services are products, goods and services that directly affect the human health and the environment. 
13. Advertising screens are means of advertising using electronic technology to convey the advertisements, including LED, LCD screens and similar forms.

Section 5. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
The State policies on advertising 
1. Protecting the lawful rights and interests of organizations and individuals in advertising activities.
2. Facilitating organizations and individuals’ developing the advertising forms and improve the advertising quality.
3. Encouraging organizations and individuals to study, apply modern science and technology to the design and construction of advertisements, efficiently invest in advertising.
4. Facilitating and encouraging the development of the advertising workforce; prioritizing the investment in professional training for the officers and officials in charge of the State management of advertising.
5. Expanding the international cooperation in advertising.

Section 6. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
State management of advertising 1. Promulgating and organizing the implementation of the legal documents on advertising.
2. Formulating and directing the strategies, planning, plans and policies on advertising development.
3. Disseminating the law on advertising.
4. Guiding the researches and application of science and technology to advertising.
5. Guiding and organizing the implementation of the professional training provision for the advertising workforce.
6. Organizing the commendation in advertising.
7. Getting international cooperation in advertising.
8. Carrying out inspections, settling complaints, denunciation and handling violations of advertising.

Section 7. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
State management responsibilities for advertising 1. The Government shall unify the State management of advertising.
2. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism is responsible to the Government for the State management of advertising.
3. The Ministries and ministerial-level agencies are responsible to cooperate with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in performing the State management of advertising within their scope of duties and authority.
4. People’s Committees all levels are in charge of the State management of local advertising activities within their authority

Section 8. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertising contract 
The cooperation among the subjects in advertising activities must be concluded in the advertising contract as prescribed by law.

Section 9. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Products, goods and services banned from advertising 1. Goods and services banned from trade as prescribed by law.
2. Cigarettes.
3. Wine that contains 150 alcohol or above.
4. Dairy being breast milk substitute for children under 24 months old, dietary supplements for children under 06 months old; artificial feeding bottles and pacifiers
5. Prescription drugs, non-prescription drugs recommended by competent State agencies to use restrictively or under the doctor’s supervision.
6. Pornographic products.
7. Shotguns and cartridges, sporting weapons and products that might incite violence.
8. Other products, goods and services banned from advertising specified by the Government depending on the actual requirements.

Section 10. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Prohibited acts in advertising 1. Advertising the products, goods and services specified in

Section 11. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
of this Law.
2. Using advertisements that reveal the State secrets, harm the independence and National sovereignty, National defense and security.
3. Using advertisement inartistically , contrary to the Vietnam’s history, culture, ethics and traditional customs
4. Using advertisements that affect the urban scenery, the traffic safety and the social order.
5. Using advertisements that degrade the respectability of the National flag, the National emblem, the National anthem, the Party’s flag, national heroes, cultural celebrities, the leaders of the State and the Party.
6. Using advertisements that express racial discrimination, sexual discrimination, prejudice against disabled people, or violate the freedom of belief and religion.
7. Using advertisements that offend the prestige, honor and dignity of other organizations and individuals.
8. Using advertisements that contain other people’s pictures, words or text without obtaining their consent, unless otherwise permitted by law.
9. Advertising incorrectly or causing confusion about the business competence, the ability to provide products, goods and services of organizations and individuals trading and providing such products, goods and services; about the quantity, quality, prices, features, designs, package, brand name, kinds, method of service, warranty duration of the registered or announced products, goods and services.
10. Advertising using direct comparison of the prices, quality and efficiency of their products, goods and services to that of the other’s products, goods and services of the same kind.
11. Advertising using the words “best”, “the best”, “only”, “number one” or words with similar meaning without legitimate documents proving so as prescribed by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
12. Advertising using unhealthy competition contents as prescribed by law provisions on competition.
13. Using advertisements that violate law provisions on intellectual property.
14. Using advertisements that make children think, speak and act against the traditional customs and ethics, negatively affect the children’s health, safety or natural development.
15. Forcing other agencies, organizations and individuals to make advertisements or receive advertisements involuntarily.
16. Hanging, placing, painting advertisements on electric poles, traffic lights and public trees.

Section 12. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisement Appraisal Council 
1. Advertisement Appraisal Council is an advisory organization affiliated to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, assisting the Minister in considering and drawing conclusion about the conformity of the advertisements to the law provisions when organizations and individuals request the advertisement appraisal
2. The Advertisement Appraisal Council include the representatives from the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, professional organizations of advertising and experts from relevant fields.
3. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism shall elaborate the organization and activities of the Advertisement Appraisal Council.

Section 13. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Professional organizations of advertising 1. Professional organizations of advertising are established and operate under the law provisions.
2. The professional organizations of advertising are entitled to:
a) Protect the lawful rights and interests of their members;
b) Formulate, submit the code of professional conduct in advertising to the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism for approval, and organize the implementation of such code.
c) Participate in formulating and the strategies, plans and policies on advertising development; the legal documents, technical regulations and standards of advertising and outdoor advertising planning;
d) Nominate representatives and experts to join the Advertisement Appraisal Council at the request from competent State management agencies.
dd) Conducting researches and application of science and technology to advertising; providing consultancy, information, professional training in advertising techniques and professional ethics
e) Promote healthy competition in order to develop the advertising market and improve the advertisement quality;
g) Cooperate with State management agencies to propagate and disseminate the law provisions on advertising, strengthen consumers’ belief;
h) Other duties and entitlement as prescribed by law.

Section 14. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Handling violations of advertising 
1. Organizations committing violations of this Law and other relevant law provisions shall be liable to administrative sanctions depending on the nature and extent of the violations, and pay compensation for the damage (if any) as prescribed by law.
2. Individuals committing violations of this Law and other relevant law provisions shall be disciplined, liable to administrative sanctions or criminal prosecution depending on the nature and extent of the violations, and pay compensation for the damage (if any) as prescribed by law.
3. State management agencies of advertising must be responsible for their decisions and pay compensation for the damage caused by their incorrect decisions as prescribed by law.
4. The Government shall specify the acts of violations, forms and rates of administrative sanctions against the violations of advertising.
Chapter II 
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS IN ADVERTISING

Section 15. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Rights and obligations of advertisers 1. Advertisers are entitled to:
a) Advertise their products, goods, services, organization and individual;.
b) Make decisions on the forms and methods of advertising;
c) Receive information from local agencies in charge of advertising about the approved outdoor advertising planning;
d) Request advertisement appraisal;
2. Advertisers have the following obligations:
a) Providing the advertising service providers or advertisement publishers with accurate information about the agencies, organizations, individuals, products, goods, services and the documents related to the advertising conditions and being responsible for such information.
b) Ensuring that the product, goods and service quality is consistent with the advertisements;
c) Being responsible for their advertisements when directing advertising on the means of advertising; or being jointly responsible for the advertisements when hiring others to advertise;
d) Providing documents related to the advertisements at the request from the advertisement receiver or competent State agencies.
3. Other obligations and rights as prescribed by law.

Section 16. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Rights and obligations of advertising service providers 1. Advertising service providers are entitled to:
b) Make decisions on the forms and methods of advertising business;
b) Receive accurate and truthful information from the advertiser about the advertised organizations, individuals, products, goods, services and the documents related to the advertising conditions;
c) Participate in the formulation of the local advertising planning and receive information from local agencies in charge of advertising about the approved outdoor advertising planning;
d) Request advertisement appraisal;
2. Advertising service providers have the following obligations:
a) Operating within the range specified in the Certificate of business registration and observing the law provisions on advertising;
b) Examining the documents related to the advertising conditions of the advertised organizations, individuals, products, goods and services, and implement the relevant procedures under the advertising contract;.
c) Being responsible for the advertisements that they directly make;
d) Providing documents related to the advertisements at the request from the advertisement receiver or competent State agencies.
3. Other obligations and rights as prescribed by law.

Section 17. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Rights and obligations of advertisement publishers 1. Advertising on their means and collecting service charges as prescribed by law.
2. Examining the documents related to the advertising conditions of the advertised organizations, individuals, products, goods and services
3. Providing the documents related to the advertisements at the request from the advertisement receiver or competent State agencies.
4. Performing the signed advertisement publication contracts and being directly responsible for the advertisements put on the means of advertising under their management.
5. Request advertisement appraisal;
6. Exercising and fulfilling other rights and obligations as prescribed by law.

Section 18. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the lessor of means and place of advertising 1. Choosing the advertisers and advertising service providers.
2. Being responsible for the legitimacy of the lease of the place, the means of advertising, and their safety; fulfilling the obligations in the signed lease contracts
3. Being jointly responsible for the advertising constructions set up inconsistently with the construction license or without the construction license.
4. Exercising and fulfilling other rights and obligations as prescribed by law.

Section 19. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Rights and obligations of advertisement receivers 
1. Being entitled to receive truthful information about the quality, features and effects of the products, goods and services.
2. Being entitled to refuse advertisements.
3. Being entitled to request the advertiser or the advertisement publisher to pay compensation when the products, goods and services are inconsistent with the technical regulations and standards, the quality, quantity, features, effects and prices or other contents advertised by organizations and individuals.
4. Being entitled to denounce or file lawsuits as prescribed by law.
5. When denouncing or claiming compensation, the documents and evidence of the violations of law provisions on advertising must be provided for State management agencies, and the damage cause by the advertisements must be proved. The advertisement receiver is entitled to request the advertising service providers, advertisement publishers or advertisers to provide documents related to the advertisements.
Chapter III 
ADVERTISING ACTIVITIES

Section 20. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
MEANS OF ADVERTISING; REQUIREMENTS OF ADVERTISING CONDITIONS AND CONTENTS

Section 21. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Means of advertising 1. Newspapers
2. Websites, electronic equipment, terminal devices and other telecommunication devices.
3. Print media, audio records, video records and other technological equipment.
4. Billboards, banners, signboards, advertising screens
5. Means of transport
6. Fairs, seminars, conventions, events, exhibitions, sports events and cultural programs
7. Advertisement conveyors; objects of advertisements.
8. Other means of advertising as prescribed by law.

Section 22. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Words and text in advertisements 
1. The advertisement content must be expressed in Vietnamese, except for the following cases:
a) The brand name, slogan, trade mark or proper name is in foreign languages, or internationalized words that cannot be substituted by Vietnamese;
b) Books, websites and print media permitted to be published in Vietnam’s ethnic languages, foreign languages; radio, television broadcasts in Vietnam’ ethnic languages or foreign languages.
2. For advertisements that contain both Vietnamese and the foreign language, the foreign font size must not exceed three quarters of the Vietnamese text and must be placed below the Vietnamese text; on radio, TV or other audio-visual media, the Vietnamese must be spoken before the foreign text

Section 23. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Requirements for advertisement contents 
1. Advertisement contents must be truthful, accurate and clear without causing damage to producers, traders and advertisement receivers.
2. The Government shall specify the requirements for the advertisement contents of special products, goods and services.

Section 24. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertising conditions 1. Having the Certificate of business registration when advertising goods and services.
2. When advertising products, goods and services, the documents proving their conformity and qualification must be presented as prescribed by law.
3. Having the ownership certificate or the use right certificate when advertising property of which the ownership certificate or use right certificate is compulsory.
4. The advertisements of special products, goods and services must satisfy the following conditions:
a) Having the unexpired Circulation license and the medicine instruction sheet approved by the Ministry of Health when advertising medicines allowed to be advertised as prescribed by law provisions on medicines;
b) Having the cosmetics announcement sheet as prescribed by law provisions on medicines when advertising cosmetics;
c) Having the circulation registration certificate issued by the Ministry of Health when advertising domestic and medical chemicals, pesticides and antiseptic ;
d) When advertising milk and dietary products for small children not being specified in Clause 4

Section 25. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
of this Law, it is compulsory to have the standard certificate, food safety and hygiene certificate must be obtained regarding dietary products domestically produced, or the product quality certificate issued by the competent agency of the producing country, and the circulation license for imported dietary products.
dd) Having the food hygiene, safety and quality registration certificate when advertising food and food additives in the list of compulsory food quality safety and hygiene registration, or having the standard announcement dossier receipt from the competent State agency when advertising food and food additives in the list of compulsory standard announcement;
e) Having the practice qualification issued by the Health sector when advertising medical examination and treatment services;
g) Having the circulation license when advertising medical equipment domestically produced, or having the import license when advertising imported medical equipment;
h) Having the plant protection drugs registration certificate when advertising plant protection medicine or plant protection drug materials. Having the plant quarantine certificate issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural development when advertising useful organisms for plant protection;
i) Having the circulation license and the product property summary sheet when advertising veterinary medicines and equipment;
k) Having the product quality certificate or the written product quality announcement when advertising fertilizers, biological preparations serving farming, animal feed and biological preparations serving breeding.
5. The Government shall specify the requirements for the advertisement conditions for special products, goods and services depending on the actual requirements.

Section 26. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
ADVERTISEMENTS ON NEWPAPERS, WEBSITES. ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT, TERMINAL DEVICES AND OTHER TELECOMMUNICATION DEVICES.

Section 27. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on newspapers 
1. The advertisement area must not exceed 15% of the total area of a newspapers, or 20% of the total area of a magazine except for advertising newspapers and magazines; The advertisement area must be distinguishable from other contents.
2. The press agencies is allowed to publish advertising supplements and must send written notification to the State agencies in charge of the press management in advanced at least 30 days before the first release date of the advertising supplements.
3. The advertising supplement must be separately numbered, similar in size and issued under the primary section.
4. The first page of the advertising supplement must specify the following information:
a) The newspaper name;
b) The name and address of the press agency;
c) The text “The sale price does not include the advertising supplement".
5. The advertisements must not be put on the first cover of a magazine, or the first page of a newspaper.

Section 28. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on audio and video newspapers 
1. The advertisement duration on audio newspapers and video newspapers must not exceed 10% of the total broadcast duration in a day of the broadcasting organization, except for the advertisement duration on the advertising channels or advertising programs. The advertisements must be distinguishable from other contents.
2. The advertisement duration on paid television must not exceed 5% of the total broadcast duration in a day of a broadcasting organization, except for the advertising channels or advertising programs.
3. The advertisements are banned from the following programs:
a) News;
b) Live radio, television broadcasts of special political events or the national anniversaries.
4. Each movie show must not be cut for advertising more than twice, each time must not exceed 05 minutes Each entertainment show must not be cut for advertising more than four times, each time must not exceed 05 minutes.
5. The advertisements of which the primary information is displayed in the form of running text or a series of animated pictures, the advertisements must be put at the bottom of the screen and must not exceed 10% of the screen height as well as affecting the main contents of the show. This form of advertising is not included in the advertisement duration of video newspapers.
6. Audio, video newspapers agencies must obtain the license from State agencies in charge of the press management when establishing advertising channels or programs The application for establishing the advertising channel or advertising program includes:
a) The written application for establishing the advertising channel or advertising program
b) The opinion from the line agency;
c) The authenticated copy of the license for press activities.
7. The press agency must send the application for the license amendment and supplement to the State agency in charge of the press management when changing the contents of the license to establish the advertising channel or advertising program. The application for the license amendment and supplement includes:
a) The written application for the license amendment and supplement;
b) The authenticated copy of the unexpired license.
8. The license is issued under the following procedures:
a) Within 30 days as from fully receiving the valid dossiers, the State agency in charge of the press management shall consider and issue the license to establish the advertising channel or advertising program to the press agency, and specify the reason if not
a) Within 15 days as from fully receiving the valid dossiers, the State agency in charge of the press management shall consider and issue the amended and supplemented license to the press agency, and specify the reason if not;
c) Within 07 days as from the license to establish the advertising channel, advertising program, or the amended and supplemented license is issued, the licensing agency must send the copy of the issued license to the State agency in charge of advertising management and People’s Committees of central-affiliated cities and provinces (hereinafter referred to as provincial People’s Committees) where the press agencies are located in order to cooperate in the management.

Section 29. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on electronic newspapers and websites 
1. The advertisements on electronic newspapers must comply with the following provisions:
a) The advertisements must not be designed and placed among the news;
b) The unfixed advertisements must be designed so that the reader may actively activate or inactivate the advertisements. The maximum activation latency of the advertisements is 1.5 second.
2. The advertisements on the websites of State agencies must comply with Clause 1 this Article.
3. The advertisements on the websites of foreign organizations and individuals doing multi- national advertising that earn incomes from advertising in Vietnam must comply with this Law and other relevant law provisions.
4. The Government shall elaborate Clause 3 this Article.

Section 30. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on electronic equipment, terminal devices and other telecommunication devices. 1. Advertising by sending text messages advertising emails:
a) Organizations and individuals are only allowed to send text messages and advertising emails after obtaining the consent from the receiver;
b) The electronic information and telecommunication service providers are only allowed to send text messages and advertising emails about their services via telephones from 7.AM to 10.PM. It is prohibited to send more than 3 advertising text messages to a telephone number, more than 3 emails to an email address within 24 hours, unless otherwise agreed by the receiver;
c) Advertising organizations and individuals must ensure that the receiver is able to refuse advertisements and must immediately stop sending the advertising emails and messages when the receiver notify their refusal. The refusal notification from the receiver must not be charged.
2. Other forms of advertisements on other telecommunication devices, electronic devices and terminal devices must comply with this Law and other relevant law provisions.

Section 31. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
ADVERTISEMENTS ON PRINT MEDIA, AUDIO RECORDS, VIDEO RECORDS AND OTHER TECHNOLOGICAL EQUIPMENT

Section 32. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on print media 
1. For books and documents in forms of books, the advertisements for the authors, the writings and the publishers must only be placed on the second, third and fourth cover, except for advertising books.
2. For non-business documents, only the advertisements for the author, the writing or the symbol, logo, brand name, products services and activities of the organizations and individuals allowed to publish such documents are permitted.
3. The advertisements on pictures, posters, catalogues, fliers and leaflets for political, economic, cultural, social, scientific, technological, literature and artistic propagation and dissemination must not exceed 20% area of the item.
The symbol, logo and brand name of the advertisers must be put at the bottom of the print product.
4. Advertisements are banned from print products being money or valuable papers, certificates and State management documents.
5. The advertisements on pictures, posters, catalogues, fliers, leaflets and other print products not being prescribed in Clause 3 and Clause 4 this Article must contain the name and address of organizations and individuals providing advertising services or the advertisers, the print quantity and print location.

Section 33. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements in audio records and video records. 
The advertisement duration in audio, video records of programs on cultures, art, movies, or audio, video records being book substitutes or book illustration must not exceed 5% of the program duration.

Section 34. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
ADVERTISEMENTS ON BILLBOARDS, BANNERS, SIGNBOARDS, ADVERTISING SCREENS AND MEANS OF TRANSPORT

Section 35. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on billboards and banners 
1. The positions of billboards and banners must comply with law provisions on cultural and historical relic protection area, safe traffic corridor, dykes and national electric network; must not block out the traffic lights and public road signs; must not cross the roads and must comply with the local advertising planning and the technical regulations promulgated by competent agencies.
2. The advertisements on the billboards and banners must specify the names and address of their maker.
3. The advertisements on billboards and banners being political and social policy propagation must comply with the following provisions:
a) The symbols, logos and brand names of the advertisers must be put at the bottom of the billboards and vertical banners, or on the right of the horizontal banners;
b) The area for displaying the symbols, logos and brand names of the advertisers must not exceed 20% of the billboard and banner area.
4. The time limit for putting up a banner is 15 days.

Section 36. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements on advertising screens 
1. The positions of advertising screens must comply with this Law, other relevant law provisions and the local outdoor advertising planning.
2. Sounds must not be used in advertisements on outdoor advertising screens.
3. Sounds may be used in the advertisements on screens not being specified in Clause 2 this Article in accordance with law provisions on environment.

Section 37. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
The dossier on billboard, banner advertisement notification 
1. The written notification of billboard, banner advertisement must specify the contents, time and place of advertisements, the quantity of billboards, banners.
2. The copy of the Certificate of business registration of the advertising service provider or the Certificate of business registration of the advertiser in case of self-advertising.
3. The copies of documents proving the conformity and qualifications of products, goods and services as prescribed by law, or papers proving the eligibility for advertising as prescribed in

Section 38. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
of this Law.
4. The copies of the event documents from the organizer for advertisements of social policies and events.
5. The color design marquette of the advertisements with the signature of the advertising service provider or the advertiser in case of self-advertising. For advertisers and advertising service providers being organizations, the seal of the organization is required.
6. Documents proving the ownership or the right to use the billboard; the ownership or the right to use the advertising location for banners
7. The perspective drawing of the billboard location.
8. The copy of the license to build advertising constructions regarding the billboards subject to construction licenses as prescribed in Clause 2

Section 39. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Procedures for notifying billboard, banner advertisements 
1. Organizations and individuals demanding advertising on billboards and banners must send the dossier on advertisement notification to local competent agencies in charge of advertising management before the advertisement 15 days.
2. If there is no response within 05 working days as from the day the local competent agency in charge of advertising management confirm the dossier reception, the organization or individual is entitled to perform the notified advertisements In case the local competent agency in charge of advertising management does not approve, the written response specifying the reasons must be sent.

Section 40. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Licensing advertising constructions. 
1. The construction of outdoor advertising screens, signboards, independent billboards attached to another existing construction must comply with this Law, other relevant law provisions and the local outdoor advertising planning.
2. The construction of outdoor advertising screens, signboards, independent billboards attached to another existing construction must be issued with the construction license from local competent agencies in charge of construction in the following cases:
a) Building outdoor advertising screens with 20 m2 of one side or above;
b) Building signboards, billboards with over 20 m2 of one side with metal structure or similar materials and attached to another existing construction.
c) Independent billboards with 40 m2 one side or above.
3. The application for the advertising construction license includes:
a) The written application for the advertising construction license;
b) The copy of the Certificate of business registration of the organization or individual applying for the advertising construction license;
c) The authenticated copy of one of the following papers: the land use right certificate, the written agreement or contract for land lease as prescribed by law provisions on land regarding
independent advertising constructions; the location lease contract between the investor of the advertising construction and the owner, or the legal owner of the advertising construction attached to another existing construction, or the written bid winning notice for the advertising locations subject to compulsory bidding in the planning;
d) For advertising constructions attached to another existing construction, the written agreement or the contract between the investor of the advertising construction and the owner or the person authorized to manage the existing construction;
dd) The design drawing from the legal design organizations demonstrating the isometric surface, cross section, orthographic projections and the foundation projection of the construction together with the signature and seal of the advertising construction investor. For advertising constructions attached to another existing construction, the design drawing must demonstrate the connection of the advertising construction and the existing construction.
4. The advertising construction license is issued under the following procedures:
a) The organization or individual applying for the advertising construction license shall submit the dossier at the local competent agency in charge of construction;
b) For advertising locations within the advertising plan approved by the provincial People’s Committee, the local competent agency in charge of construction shall issue the advertising construction license within 15 days as from fully receiving the valid dossier. If the license is not issued, the reasons must be specified in the written response;
c) In case the advertising plan is not yet approved, the local competent agency in charge of construction shall send the written request for the opinion from relevant agencies within 02 working days as from receiving the valid dossier. Within 05 working days as from receiving the written request for opinion from the local competent agency in charge of construction, the relevant agencies stated above must send written response to the local competent agency in charge of construction. Within 13 days as from obtaining the opinion from the relevant agencies stated above, the local competent agency in charge of construction shall issue the advertising construction license. If the license is not issued, the reasons must be specified in the written response.

Section 41. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertising on means of transport 
1. The advertising on means of transport must comply with this Law and law provisions on traffic.
2. The advertisements must not be displayed on the front, the back and the roof of the vehicle. The advertisement area must not exceed 50% area of each permissible side of the vehicle. The display of symbols, logos of the vehicle owners or the car corporations must comply with the law provisions on traffic.

Section 42. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements using loudspeakers and similar forms 
1. The advertisements using loudspeakers and similar forms at a fixed location must comply with the following provisions:
a) The noise level must not exceed the acceptable level as prescribed by law provisions on environment;
b) It is prohibited to advertise at armed force units, schools and hospitals
c) It is prohibited to advertise on the radiobroadcast system serving the political duties of the commune, district or town.
2. It is prohibited to advertise by loudspeakers attached to means of transport and other movable means in urban areas.

Section 43. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Signboards of organizations and individuals doing business and production 1. The signboard must include the following contents:
a) The name of the direct line agency (if any);
b) The name of the production facility or the business establishment consistent with the Certificate of business registration;
c) The address and phone number.
2. The text on the signboard must comply with

Section 44. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
of this Law.
3. The signboard sizes are specified as follows:
a) For horizontal signboards, the maximum height is 02 meters (m), the length must not exceed the width of the house front;
b) For vertical signboards, the maximum width is 01 meter (m), the maximum height is 04 meters (m) but must not exceed the height of the floor where the signboard is located.
4. The signboard must not block the emergency exit and fire fighting space, must not violate the pavement, the road or affect the public traffic.
5. The signboard location must comply with this Law and the technical regulations promulgated by competent agencies.

Section 45. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
ADVERTISEMENTS IN SPORTS EVENTS AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS, CONVENTIONS, SEMINARS, FAIRS, EXHIBITIONS, EVENTS, ADVERTISING PERFORMER TEAMS, OBJECTS OF ADVERTISEMENTS

Section 46. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements in sports events and cultural programs 
1. The advertisements in sports events and cultural programs must comply with law provisions on art and sports.
2. The advertisements must not be put at the same height or higher than the program symbol, logo or name; the font size on the advertisements must not exceed one half of the font size of the program name.
3. The advertisements on stage must ensure the scenery and must not block the audience’s vision.
4. The advertisements in stadiums and places where sports events take place must not block out the National flag, the National emblem, the leader pictures, the stadium displays and the audience’s vision; must not affecting the training, competitions and demonstration of the athletes, the trainers’ instructions and the performance of the organizers, referees, guides, medics and other attendants.

Section 47. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
ADVERTISING PERFORMER TEAMS, CONVENTIONS, SEMINARS, FAIRS, EXHIBITIONS, EVENTS, OBJECTS OF ADVERTISEMENTS 
1. The advertising performer team must comply with the following provisions:
a) The advertising performer team is a team with 3 people or above that wear costumes or carry pictures and items showing the advertisements at a fixed place or travel down the street;
b) The advertising performer team must ensure the traffic safety and social order; observe the law provisions on advertising and other relevant law provisions;
c) Organizations and individuals holding advertising performer teams must notify the local competent agency in charge of advertising management of the contents and form of the advertisements, the quantity of people in the event, the time and route at least 15 days before the advertisement.
Within 15 days as from receiving the notification, if the local competent agency in charge of advertising management does not approve, the written response specifying the reasons must be sent. If there is no response after the time limit above, organizations and individuals are entitled to perform the notified advertisements.
2. Seminars, conventions, events, exhibitions, advertisement conveyors, objects of advertisements and other means of advertising must comply with this Law and other relevant law provisions, ensure the urban scenery, landscape, traffic safety and social order.

Section 48. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING PLANNING

Section 49. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Contents and principles of outdoor advertising planning 
1. The outdoor advertising planning must specify the location, design, size, material and quantity of the means of advertising on the national roads, provincial roads, district roads and means of advertising in urban areas.
2. The development outdoor advertising planning must comply with the following principles:
a) Conformable with law provisions on advertising, construction, traffic and other relevant law provisions;
b) Conformable with the local construction planning, ensuring the urban scenery, traffic safety and social order;
c) Ensuring the stability, transparency and feasibility;
d) Ensuring the unanimity and harmony among the localities at the intersection on national and provincial roads;
dd) Prioritizing the advertising locations consistent with the existing planning; if the adjustment of the planning causes damage to organizations and individuals, the planning approval agency is responsible for offering compensation as prescribed by law;
e) Obtaining the opinion from organizations and individuals participating in the advertising activities and from the people.
3. The Government shall elaborate the dossier and the procedures for developing, approving, implementing and adjusting the advertising planning.

Section 50. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
The responsibilities for developing and guiding the implementation of outdoor advertising planning 1. Provincial People’s Committees are responsible for:
a) Developing and approving the local outdoor advertising planning within 12 months as from this Law takes effect;
b) Adjusting the advertising planning periodically in accordance with the local development;
c) Posting the planning documents and drawing at the offices of People’s Committees at all levels and announce it on local means of mass media;
d) Guiding, expediting and inspecting the implementation of outdoor advertising planning.
2. The Ministry of Construction is responsible for:
a) Promulgating technical regulations on outdoor means of advertising within 06 months as from this Law takes effect;
b) Cooperating with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, the Ministry of Transport and relevant Ministries to guide the locality to develop their advertising planning under the technical regulations promulgated by the Ministry of Construction.
Chapter IV 
ADVERTISEMENTS RELATED TO FOREIGNERS

Section 51. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Advertisements of foreign organizations and individuals in Vietnam 
1. Foreign organizations and individuals operating in Vietnam are entitled to advertise their products, goods, services and operation in Vietnam as prescribed in this Law.
2. Foreign organizations and individuals not operating in Vietnam demanding to advertise their products, goods, services and operation in Vietnam must hire an advertising service provider in Vietnam.

Section 52. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Foreign investment and cooperation in advertising 
1. Foreign organizations and individuals are allowed to cooperate with Vietnamese advertising service providers in forms of joint ventures or business association contracts
2. The foreign investment and cooperation in advertising must comply with law provisions on investment.

Section 53. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Representative offices of foreign advertising agencies in Vietnam 1. Foreign advertising agencies are entitled to establish representative offices in Vietnam.
2. The representative offices are allowed to operate after obtaining the license from the provincial People’s Committee where the foreign enterprise request the representative office establishment.
3. The representative offices are only allowed to promote advertising, not directly providing advertising services.
4. The Government shall specify the authority, dossier and procedures for licensing the establishment of representative offices of foreign advertising agencies in Vietnam.
Chapter V 
IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS

Section 54. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Effects 
This Law takes effect on January 01, 2013.
The Ordinance on advertising No. 39/2001/PL-UBTVQH10 on November 16, 2011 is annulled as from this Law takes effect.

Section 55. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Elaborating and guiding the implementation 
The Government and competent agencies shall elaborate and guide the implementation of the Articles and Clauses in this Law as assigned.
This Law has been approved on June 21, 2012 by the 8th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in the 3rd session. 
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT 
Nguyen Sinh Hung 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Unofficial translated by LPVN 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Luật quảng cáo số 16/2012/QH13 ngày 21/6/2012 
﻿ Luật Quảng Cáo (Luật số 16/2012/QH13) 
QUỐC HỘI -------- 
CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM Độc lập - Tự do - Hạnh phúc 
--------------- Luật số: 16/2012/QH13 Hà Nội, ngày 21 tháng 6 năm 2012 
LUẬT QUẢNG CÁO
Căn cứ Hiến pháp nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam năm 1992 đã được sửa đổi, bổ sung một số điều theo Nghị quyết số 51/2001/QH10; 
Quốc hội ban hành Luật quảng cáo. 
Chương I 
NHỮNG QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 56. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Phạm vi điều chỉnh 
1. Luật này quy định về hoạt động quảng cáo; quyền và nghĩa vụ của tổ chức, cá nhân tham gia hoạt động quảng cáo; quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo.
2. Các thông tin cổ động, tuyên truyền chính trị không thuộc phạm vi điều chỉnh của Luật này.

Section 57. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Giải thích từ ngữ Trong Luật này, các từ ngữ dưới đây được hiểu như sau:
1. Quảng cáo là việc sử dụng các phương tiện nhằm giới thiệu đến công chúng sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ có mục đích sinh lợi; sản phẩm, dịch vụ không có mục đích sinh lợi; tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh sản phẩm, hàng hoá, dịch vụ được giới thiệu, trừ tin thời sự; chính sách xã hội; thông tin cá nhân.
2. Dịch vụ có mục đích sinh lợi là dịch vụ nhằm tạo ra lợi nhuận cho tổ chức, cá nhân cung ứng dịch vụ; dịch vụ không có mục đích sinh lợi là dịch vụ vì lợi ích của xã hội không nhằm tạo ra lợi nhuận cho tổ chức, cá nhân cung ứng dịch vụ.
3. Sản phẩm quảng cáo bao gồm nội dung và hình thức quảng cáo được thể hiện bằng hình ảnh, âm thanh, tiếng nói, chữ viết, biểu tượng, màu sắc, ánh sáng và các hình thức tương tự.
4. Xúc tiến quảng cáo là hoạt động tìm kiếm, thúc đẩy cơ hội ký kết hợp đồng dịch vụ quảng cáo.
5. Người quảng cáo là tổ chức, cá nhân có yêu cầu quảng cáo sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ của mình hoặc bản thân tổ chức, cá nhân đó.
6. Người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo là tổ chức, cá nhân thực hiện một, một số hoặc tất cả các công đoạn của quá trình quảng cáo theo hợp đồng cung ứng dịch vụ quảng cáo với người quảng cáo.
7. Người phát hành quảng cáo là tổ chức, cá nhân dùng phương tiện quảng cáo thuộc trách nhiệm quản lý của mình giới thiệu sản phẩm quảng cáo đến công chúng, bao gồm cơ quan báo chí, nhà xuất bản, chủ trang thông tin điện tử, người tổ chức chương trình văn hóa, thể thao và tổ chức, cá nhân sử dụng phương tiện quảng cáo khác.
8. Người chuyển tải sản phẩm quảng cáo là người trực tiếp đưa các sản phẩm quảng cáo đến công chúng hoặc thể hiện sản phẩm quảng cáo trên người thông qua hình thức mặc, treo, gắn, dán, vẽ hoặc các hình thức tương tự.
9. Người tiếp nhận quảng cáo là người tiếp nhận thông tin từ sản phẩm quảng cáo thông qua phương tiện quảng cáo.
10. Thời lượng quảng cáo là thời gian phát sóng các sản phẩm quảng cáo trong một kênh, chương trình phát thanh, truyền hình; thời gian quảng cáo trong tổng thời gian của một chương trình văn hoá, thể thao; thời gian quảng cáo trong một bản ghi âm, ghi hình và các thiết bị công nghệ khác.
11. Diện tích quảng cáo là phần thể hiện các sản phẩm quảng cáo trên mặt báo in, báo hình, báo điện tử, trang thông tin điện tử, xuất bản phẩm, bảng quảng cáo, phương tiện giao thông hoặc trên các phương tiện quảng cáo tương tự.
12. Sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ đặc biệt là sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ ảnh hưởng trực tiếp đến sức khỏe con người và môi trường.
13. Màn hình chuyên quảng cáo là phương tiện quảng cáo sử dụng công nghệ điện tử để truyền tải các sản phẩm quảng cáo, bao gồm màn hình LED, LCD và các hình thức tương tự.

Section 58. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Chính sách của Nhà nước đối với hoạt động quảng cáo 1. Bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của tổ chức, cá nhân trong hoạt động quảng cáo.
2. Tạo điều kiện để tổ chức, cá nhân phát triển các loại hình quảng cáo, nâng cao chất lượng quảng cáo.
3. Khuyến khích tổ chức, cá nhân nghiên cứu, ứng dụng khoa học và công nghệ hiện đại vào việc thiết kế, xây dựng sản phẩm quảng cáo, đầu tư có hiệu quả vào quảng cáo.
4. Tạo điều kiện và khuyến khích phát triển nguồn nhân lực cho hoạt động quảng cáo; ưu tiên đầu tư đào tạo, bồi dưỡng chuyên môn cho cán bộ, công chức thực hiện quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo.
5. Mở rộng hợp tác quốc tế về hoạt động quảng cáo.

Section 59. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Nội dung quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo 1. Ban hành và tổ chức thực hiện các văn bản quy phạm pháp luật về hoạt động quảng cáo.
2. Xây dựng và chỉ đạo thực hiện chiến lược, quy hoạch, kế hoạch, chính sách phát triển hoạt động quảng cáo.
3. Phổ biến, giáo dục pháp luật về hoạt động quảng cáo.
4. Chỉ đạo hoạt động nghiên cứu, ứng dụng khoa học, công nghệ trong hoạt động quảng cáo.
5. Chỉ đạo, tổ chức thực hiện công tác đào tạo, bồi dưỡng nhân lực cho hoạt động quảng cáo.
6. Tổ chức thực hiện công tác khen thưởng trong hoạt động quảng cáo.
7. Thực hiện hợp tác quốc tế trong lĩnh vực quảng cáo.
8. Thanh tra, kiểm tra, giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo và xử lý vi phạm trong hoạt động quảng cáo.

Section 60. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Trách nhiệm quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo 
1. Chính phủ thống nhất quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo.
2. Bộ Văn hoá, Thể thao và Du lịch chịu trách nhiệm trước Chính phủ thực hiện quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo.
3. Bộ, cơ quan ngang bộ trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có trách nhiệm phối hợp với Bộ Văn hoá, Thể thao và Du lịch thực hiện quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo.
4. Ủy ban nhân dân các cấp thực hiện quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo trong phạm vi địa phương theo thẩm quyền.

Section 61. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hợp đồng dịch vụ quảng cáo 
Việc hợp tác giữa các chủ thể trong hoạt động quảng cáo phải thông qua hợp đồng dịch vụ quảng cáo theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 62. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ cấm quảng cáo 1. Hàng hóa, dịch vụ cấm kinh doanh theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Thuốc lá.
3. Rượu có nồng độ cồn từ 15 độ trở lên.
4. Sản phẩm sữa thay thế sữa mẹ dùng cho trẻ dưới 24 tháng tuổi, sản phẩm dinh dưỡng bổ sung dùng cho trẻ dưới 06 tháng tuổi; bình bú và vú ngậm nhân tạo.
5. Thuốc kê đơn; thuốc không kê đơn nhưng được cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khuyến cáo hạn chế sử dụng hoặc sử dụng có sự giám sát của thầy thuốc.
6. Các loại sản phẩm, hàng hóa có tính chất kích dục.
7. Súng săn và đạn súng săn, vũ khí thể thao và các loại sản phẩm, hàng hóa có tính chất kích động bạo lực.
8. Các sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ cấm quảng cáo khác do Chính phủ quy định khi có phát sinh trên thực tế.

Section 63. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hành vi cấm trong hoạt động quảng cáo 1. Quảng cáo những sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ quy định tại

Section 64. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
của Luật này.
2. Quảng cáo làm tiết lộ bí mật nhà nước, phương hại đến độc lập, chủ quyền quốc gia, an ninh, quốc phòng.
3. Quảng cáo thiếu thẩm mỹ, trái với truyền thống lịch sử, văn hóa, đạo đức, thuần phong mỹ tục Việt Nam.
4. Quảng cáo làm ảnh hưởng đến mỹ quan đô thị, trật tự an toàn giao thông, an toàn xã hội.
5. Quảng cáo gây ảnh hưởng xấu đến sự tôn nghiêm đối với Quốc kỳ, Quốc huy, Quốc ca, Đảng kỳ, anh hùng dân tộc, danh nhân văn hóa, lãnh tụ, lãnh đạo Đảng, Nhà nước.
6. Quảng cáo có tính chất kỳ thị dân tộc, phân biệt chủng tộc, xâm phạm tự do tín ngưỡng, tôn giáo, định kiến về giới, về người khuyết tật.
7. Quảng cáo xúc phạm uy tín, danh dự, nhân phẩm của tổ chức, cá nhân.
8. Quảng cáo có sử dụng hình ảnh, lời nói, chữ viết của cá nhân khi chưa được cá nhân đó đồng ý, trừ trường hợp được pháp luật cho phép.
9. Quảng cáo không đúng hoặc gây nhầm lẫn về khả năng kinh doanh, khả năng cung cấp sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ của tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ; về số lượng, chất lượng, giá, công dụng, kiểu dáng, bao bì, nhãn hiệu, xuất xứ, chủng loại, phương thức phục vụ, thời hạn bảo hành của sản phẩm, hàng hoá, dịch vụ đã đăng ký hoặc đã được công bố.
10. Quảng cáo bằng việc sử dụng phương pháp so sánh trực tiếp về giá cả, chất lượng, hiệu quả sử dụng sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ của mình với giá cả, chất lượng, hiệu quả sử dụng sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ cùng loại của tổ chức, cá nhân khác.
11. Quảng cáo có sử dụng các từ ngữ “nhất”, “duy nhất”, “tốt nhất”, “số một” hoặc từ ngữ có ý nghĩa tương tự mà không có tài liệu hợp pháp chứng minh theo quy định của Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch.
12. Quảng cáo có nội dung cạnh tranh không lành mạnh theo quy định của pháp luật về cạnh tranh.
13. Quảng cáo vi phạm pháp luật về sở hữu trí tuệ.
14. Quảng cáo tạo cho trẻ em có suy nghĩ, lời nói, hành động trái với đạo đức, thuần phong mỹ tục; gây ảnh hưởng xấu đến sức khỏe, an toàn hoặc sự phát triển bình thường của trẻ em.
15. Ép buộc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân thực hiện quảng cáo hoặc tiếp nhận quảng cáo trái ý muốn.
16. Treo, đặt, dán, vẽ các sản phẩm quảng cáo trên cột điện, trụ điện, cột tín hiệu giao thông và cây xanh nơi công cộng.

Section 65. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hội đồng thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo 
1. Hội đồng thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo là tổ chức tư vấn trực thuộc Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch, giúp Bộ trưởng xem xét và đưa ra kết luận về sự phù hợp của sản phẩm quảng cáo với quy định của pháp luật trong trường hợp tổ chức, cá nhân yêu cầu thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo.
2. Thành phần của Hội đồng thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo bao gồm đại diện Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch, đại diện của tổ chức nghề nghiệp về quảng cáo và các chuyên gia trong lĩnh vực có liên quan.
3. Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch quy định chi tiết về tổ chức và hoạt động của Hội đồng thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo.

Section 66. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Tổ chức nghề nghiệp về quảng cáo 
1. Tổ chức nghề nghiệp về quảng cáo được thành lập và hoạt động theo quy định của pháp luật về hội.
2. Tổ chức nghề nghiệp về quảng cáo có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
a) Bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của hội viên;
b) Xây dựng bộ quy tắc ứng xử nghề nghiệp quảng cáo trình Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch phê duyệt; tổ chức thực hiện bộ quy tắc ứng xử nghề nghiệp quảng cáo;
c) Tham gia ý kiến xây dựng chiến lược, kế hoạch, chính sách phát triển hoạt động quảng cáo; các văn bản quy phạm pháp luật, tiêu chuẩn, quy chuẩn kỹ thuật về quảng cáo và quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời;
d) Đề cử đại diện và giới thiệu chuyên gia tham gia Hội đồng thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo khi có yêu cầu của cơ quan quản lý nhà nước có thẩm quyền;
đ) Nghiên cứu, ứng dụng khoa học, công nghệ trong hoạt động quảng cáo; tư vấn, cung cấp thông tin, tổ chức bồi dưỡng nghiệp vụ quảng cáo và đạo đức nghề nghiệp;
e) Thúc đẩy cạnh tranh lành mạnh nhằm phát triển thị trường quảng cáo và nâng cao chất lượng sản phẩm quảng cáo;
g) Phối hợp với cơ quan quản lý nhà nước tuyên truyền, phổ biến pháp luật về quảng cáo, xây dựng niềm tin của người tiêu dùng;
h) Các nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 67. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Xử lý vi phạm trong hoạt động quảng cáo 
1. Tổ chức có hành vi vi phạm quy định của Luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử phạt vi phạm hành chính; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Cá nhân có hành vi vi phạm quy định của Luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử lý kỷ luật, xử phạt vi phạm hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về hoạt động quảng cáo phải chịu trách nhiệm về quyết định xử lý của mình; trường hợp quyết định sai, gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật.
4. Chính phủ quy định cụ thể về hành vi, hình thức và mức xử phạt vi phạm hành chính trong hoạt động quảng cáo.
Chương II 
QUYỀN VÀ NGHĨA VỤ CỦA TỔ CHỨC, CÁ NHÂN TRONG HOẠT ĐỘNG QUẢNG CÁO

Section 68. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người quảng cáo 1. Người quảng cáo có các quyền sau:
a) Quảng cáo về tổ chức, cá nhân, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ của mình;
b) Quyết định hình thức và phương thức quảng cáo;
c) Được cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương thông tin về quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời đã phê duyệt;
d) Yêu cầu thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo.
2. Người quảng cáo có các nghĩa vụ sau:
a) Cung cấp cho người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo hoặc người phát hành quảng cáo thông tin cần thiết, trung thực, chính xác về cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ, các tài liệu liên quan đến điều kiện quảng cáo và chịu trách nhiệm về các thông tin đó;
b) Bảo đảm chất lượng sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ phù hợp với nội dung quảng cáo;
c) Chịu trách nhiệm về sản phẩm quảng cáo của mình trong trường hợp trực tiếp thực hiện quảng cáo trên các phương tiện; liên đới chịu trách nhiệm về sản phẩm quảng cáo trong trường hợp thuê người khác thực hiện;
d) Cung cấp tài liệu liên quan đến sản phẩm quảng cáo khi người tiếp nhận quảng cáo hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền yêu cầu.
3. Thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 69. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo 1. Người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo có các quyền sau:
a) Quyết định hình thức và phương thức kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo;
b) Được người quảng cáo cung cấp thông tin trung thực, chính xác về tổ chức, cá nhân, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ được quảng cáo và các tài liệu liên quan đến điều kiện quảng cáo;
c) Tham gia ý kiến trong quá trình xây dựng quy hoạch quảng cáo của địa phương và được cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương thông tin về quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời;
d) Yêu cầu thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo.
2. Người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo có các nghĩa vụ sau:
a) Hoạt động theo đúng phạm vi, lĩnh vực đã được quy định trong giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh và tuân thủ quy định của pháp luật về quảng cáo;
b) Kiểm tra các tài liệu liên quan đến điều kiện quảng cáo của tổ chức, cá nhân, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ cần quảng cáo và thực hiện thủ tục có liên quan theo hợp đồng dịch vụ quảng cáo;
c) Chịu trách nhiệm về sản phẩm quảng cáo do mình trực tiếp thực hiện;
d) Cung cấp tài liệu liên quan đến sản phẩm quảng cáo khi người tiếp nhận quảng cáo hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền yêu cầu.
3. Thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 70. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người phát hành quảng cáo 1. Được quảng cáo trên phương tiện của mình và thu phí dịch vụ theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Kiểm tra các tài liệu liên quan đến điều kiện quảng cáo của tổ chức, cá nhân, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ cần quảng cáo.
3. Cung cấp tài liệu liên quan đến sản phẩm quảng cáo khi người tiếp nhận quảng cáo hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền yêu cầu.
4. Thực hiện hợp đồng phát hành quảng cáo đã ký kết và chịu trách nhiệm trực tiếp về sản phẩm quảng cáo thực hiện trên phương tiện quảng cáo thuộc trách nhiệm quản lý của mình.
5. Yêu cầu thẩm định sản phẩm quảng cáo.
6. Thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 71. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người cho thuê địa điểm, phương tiện quảng cáo 1. Lựa chọn người quảng cáo, người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo.
2. Chịu trách nhiệm về căn cứ pháp lý của việc cho thuê địa điểm quảng cáo, phương tiện quảng cáo và an toàn của phương tiện quảng cáo; thực hiện đúng các nghĩa vụ trong hợp đồng cho thuê địa điểm, phương tiện quảng cáo đã ký kết.
3. Liên đới chịu trách nhiệm trong trường hợp lắp, dựng công trình quảng cáo không đúng với giấy phép xây dựng hoặc chưa được cấp giấy phép xây dựng.
4. Thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 72. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người tiếp nhận quảng cáo 1. Được thông tin trung thực về chất lượng, tính năng, tác dụng của sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ.
2. Được từ chối tiếp nhận quảng cáo.
3. Được yêu cầu người quảng cáo hoặc người phát hành quảng cáo bồi thường thiệt hại khi sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ không đúng tiêu chuẩn, quy chuẩn kỹ thuật, chất lượng, số lượng, tính năng, công dụng, giá cả hoặc nội dung khác mà tổ chức, cá nhân đã quảng cáo.
4. Được tố cáo, khởi kiện dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật.
5. Khi tố cáo hoặc yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, phải cung cấp đầy đủ tài liệu, chứng cứ về hành vi vi phạm pháp luật về quảng cáo với cơ quan quản lý nhà nước và chứng cứ chứng minh thiệt hại mà quảng cáo gây ra; được quyền yêu cầu người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo, người phát hành quảng cáo hoặc người quảng cáo cung cấp tài liệu liên quan đến sản phẩm quảng cáo.
Chương III 
HOẠT ĐỘNG QUẢNG CÁO 
Mục 1. PHƯƠNG TIỆN QUẢNG CÁO; YÊU CẦU VỀ NỘI DUNG, ĐIỀU KIỆN QUẢNG CÁO

Section 73. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Phương tiện quảng cáo 1. Báo chí.
2. Trang thông tin điện tử, thiết bị điện tử, thiết bị đầu cuối và các thiết bị viễn thông khác.
3. Các sản phẩm in, bản ghi âm, ghi hình và các thiết bị công nghệ khác.
4. Bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn, biển hiệu, hộp đèn, màn hình chuyên quảng cáo.
5. Phương tiện giao thông.
6. Hội chợ, hội thảo, hội nghị, tổ chức sự kiện, triển lãm, chương trình văn hoá, thể thao.
7. Người chuyển tải sản phẩm quảng cáo; vật thể quảng cáo.
8. Các phương tiện quảng cáo khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 74. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Tiếng nói, chữ viết trong quảng cáo 
1. Trong các sản phẩm quảng cáo phải có nội dung thể hiện bằng tiếng Việt, trừ những trường hợp sau:
a) Nhãn hiệu hàng hoá, khẩu hiệu, thương hiệu, tên riêng bằng tiếng nước ngoài hoặc các từ ngữ đã được quốc tế hoá không thể thay thế bằng tiếng Việt;
b) Sách, báo, trang thông tin điện tử và các ấn phẩm được phép xuất bản bằng tiếng dân tộc thiểu số Việt Nam, tiếng nước ngoài; chương trình phát thanh, truyền hình bằng tiếng dân tộc thiểu số Việt Nam, tiếng nước ngoài.
2. Trong trường hợp sử dụng cả tiếng Việt, tiếng nước ngoài trên cùng một sản phẩm quảng cáo thì khổ chữ nước ngoài không được quá ba phần tư khổ chữ tiếng Việt và phải đặt bên dưới chữ tiếng Việt; khi phát trên đài phát thanh, truyền hình hoặc trên các phương tiện nghe nhìn, phải đọc tiếng Việt trước tiếng nước ngoài.

Section 75. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Yêu cầu đối với nội dung quảng cáo 
1. Nội dung quảng cáo phải bảo đảm trung thực, chính xác, rõ ràng, không gây thiệt hại cho người sản xuất, kinh doanh và người tiếp nhận quảng cáo.
2. Chính phủ quy định về yêu cầu đối với nội dung quảng cáo các sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ đặc biệt.

Section 76. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Điều kiện quảng cáo 
1. Quảng cáo về hoạt động kinh doanh hàng hoá, dịch vụ phải có giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh.
2. Quảng cáo cho các loại sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ phải có các tài liệu chứng minh về sự hợp chuẩn, hợp quy của sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Quảng cáo tài sản mà pháp luật quy định tài sản đó phải có giấy chứng nhận quyền sở hữu hoặc quyền sử dụng thì phải có giấy chứng nhận quyền sở hữu hoặc quyền sử dụng tài sản.
4. Quảng cáo cho sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ đặc biệt phải đảm bảo các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Quảng cáo thuốc được phép quảng cáo theo quy định của pháp luật về y tế; phải có giấy phép lưu hành tại Việt Nam đang còn hiệu lực và tờ hướng dẫn sử dụng do Bộ Y tế phê duyệt;
b) Quảng cáo mỹ phẩm phải có phiếu công bố sản phẩm mỹ phẩm theo quy định của pháp luật về y tế;
c) Quảng cáo hóa chất, chế phẩm diệt côn trùng, diệt khuẩn dùng trong lĩnh vực gia dụng và y tế phải có giấy chứng nhận đăng ký lưu hành do Bộ Y tế cấp;
d) Quảng cáo sữa và sản phẩm dinh dưỡng dùng cho trẻ nhỏ không thuộc quy định tại khoản 4

Section 77. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
của Luật này phải có giấy chứng nhận tiêu chuẩn, giấy chứng nhận vệ sinh an toàn thực phẩm đối với sản phẩm dinh dưỡng sản xuất trong nước; đối với sản phẩm dinh dưỡng nhập khẩu thì phải có giấy chứng nhận chất lượng sản phẩm của cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước sản xuất và giấy phép lưu hành;
đ) Quảng cáo thực phẩm, phụ gia thực phẩm phải có giấy chứng nhận đăng ký chất lượng vệ sinh an toàn đối với thực phẩm, phụ gia thực phẩm thuộc danh mục phải đăng ký chất lượng vệ sinh an toàn thực phẩm hoặc giấy tiếp nhận hồ sơ công bố tiêu chuẩn của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền đối với thực phẩm, phụ gia thực phẩm thuộc danh mục phải công bố tiêu chuẩn;
e) Quảng cáo dịch vụ khám bệnh, chữa bệnh phải có giấy chứng nhận đủ tiêu chuẩn hành nghề do ngành y tế cấp theo quy định của pháp luật;
g) Quảng cáo trang thiết bị y tế phải có giấy phép lưu hành đối với thiết bị y tế sản xuất trong nước hoặc giấy phép nhập khẩu đối với thiết bị y tế nhập khẩu;
h) Quảng cáo thuốc bảo vệ thực vật, nguyên liệu thuốc bảo vệ thực vật, vật tư bảo vệ thực vật phải có giấy chứng nhận đăng ký thuốc bảo vệ thực vật. Quảng cáo sinh vật có ích dùng trong bảo vệ thực vật phải có giấy phép kiểm dịch thực vật do Bộ Nông nghiệp và Phát triển nông thôn cấp;
i) Quảng cáo thuốc thú y, vật tư thú y phải có giấy phép lưu hành sản phẩm và bản tóm tắt đặc tính của sản phẩm;
k) Quảng cáo phân bón, chế phẩm sinh học phục vụ trồng trọt, thức ăn chăn nuôi, chế phẩm sinh học phục vụ chăn nuôi phải có giấy chứng nhận chất lượng sản phẩm hoặc văn bản tự công bố chất lượng sản phẩm.
5. Chính phủ quy định điều kiện quảng cáo đối với sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ đặc biệt khác khi có phát sinh trên thực tế.
Mục 2. QUẢNG CÁO TRÊN BÁO CHÍ, PHƯƠNG TIỆN ĐIỆN TỬ, THIẾT BỊ ĐẦU CUỐI VÀ CÁC THIẾT BỊ VIỄN THÔNG KHÁC

Section 78. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên báo in 
1. Diện tích quảng cáo không được vượt quá 15% tổng diện tích một ấn phẩm báo hoặc 20% tổng diện tích một ấn phẩm tạp chí, trừ báo, tạp chí chuyên quảng cáo; phải có dấu hiệu phân biệt quảng cáo với các nội dung khác.
2. Cơ quan báo chí được phép ra phụ trương quảng cáo và phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về báo chí trước ít nhất 30 ngày tính đến ngày phát hành đầu tiên của phụ trương quảng cáo.
3. Phụ trương quảng cáo của báo phải đánh số riêng; có cùng khuôn khổ, phát hành kèm theo số trang báo chính.
4. Trên trang một của phụ trương quảng cáo phải ghi rõ các thông tin sau:
a) Tên tờ báo;
b) Tên, địa chỉ của cơ quan báo chí;
c) Dòng chữ “Phụ trương quảng cáo không tính vào giá bán”.
5. Không được quảng cáo trên bìa một của tạp chí, trang nhất của báo.

Section 79. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên báo nói, báo hình 1. Thời lượng quảng cáo trên báo nói, báo hình không được vượt quá
10% tổng thời lượng chương trình phát sóng một ngày của một tổ chức phát sóng, trừ thời lượng quảng cáo trên kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo; phải có dấu hiệu phân biệt nội dung quảng cáo với các nội dung khác.
2. Thời lượng quảng cáo trên kênh truyền hình trả tiền không vượt quá 5% tổng thời lượng chương trình phát sóng một ngày của một tổ chức phát sóng, trừ kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo.
3. Không được phát sóng quảng cáo trong các chương trình sau:
a) Chương trình thời sự;
b) Chương trình phát thanh, truyền hình trực tiếp về các sự kiện chính trị đặc biệt, kỷ niệm các ngày lễ lớn của dân tộc.
4. Mỗi chương trình phim truyện không được ngắt để quảng cáo quá hai lần, mỗi lần không quá 05 phút. Mỗi chương trình vui chơi giải trí không được ngắt để quảng cáo quá bốn lần, mỗi lần không quá 05 phút.
5. Khi thể hiện sản phẩm quảng cáo kèm theo nội dung thông tin chính bằng hình thức chạy chữ hoặc một chuỗi hình ảnh chuyển động thì sản phẩm quảng cáo phải được thể hiện sát phía dưới màn hình, không quá 10% chiều cao màn hình và không được làm ảnh hưởng tới nội dung chính trong chương trình. Quảng cáo bằng hình thức này không tính vào thời lượng quảng cáo của báo hình.
6. Cơ quan báo nói, báo hình có nhu cầu ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo phải có giấy phép của cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về báo chí. Hồ sơ đề nghị cấp giấy phép ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo gồm:
a) Đơn đề nghị cấp giấy phép ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo;
b) Ý kiến của cơ quan chủ quản;
c) Bản sao có chứng thực giấy phép hoạt động báo chí.
7. Trong trường hợp cơ quan báo chí có nhu cầu thay đổi nội dung giấy phép ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo phải gửi hồ sơ đề nghị sửa đổi, bổ sung giấy phép đến cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về báo chí. Hồ sơ đề nghị sửa đổi, bổ sung giấy phép gồm:
a) Đơn đề nghị sửa đổi, bổ sung giấy phép;
b) Bản sao có chứng thực giấy phép đang có hiệu lực.
8. Trình tự, thủ tục cấp giấy phép được thực hiện như sau:
a) Trong thời hạn 30 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận đủ hồ sơ hợp lệ, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về báo chí xem xét cấp giấy phép ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo cho cơ quan báo chí; trường hợp không cấp giấy phép, phải có văn bản trả lời và nêu rõ lý do;
b) Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận đủ hồ sơ hợp lệ, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về báo chí xem xét, cấp giấy phép sửa đổi, bổ sung cho cơ quan báo chí; trường hợp không cấp giấy phép sửa đổi, bổ sung phải có văn bản trả lời và nêu rõ lý do;
c) Trong thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày cấp giấy phép ra kênh, chương trình chuyên quảng cáo hoặc cấp giấy phép sửa đổi, bổ sung; cơ quan cấp giấy phép phải gửi bản sao giấy phép đã cấp cho cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về quảng cáo và Ủy ban nhân dân tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc trung ương (sau đây gọi chung là Ủy ban nhân dân cấp tỉnh) nơi cơ quan báo chí đặt trụ sở chính để phối hợp trong công tác quản lý.

Section 80. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên báo điện tử và trang thông tin điện tử 1. Quảng cáo trên báo điện tử phải tuân theo các quy định sau:
a) Không được thiết kế, bố trí phần quảng cáo lẫn vào phần nội dung tin;
b) Đối với những quảng cáo không ở vùng cố định, phải thiết kế để độc giả có thể chủ động tắt hoặc mở quảng cáo, thời gian chờ tắt hoặc mở quảng cáo tối đa là 1,5 giây.
2. Quảng cáo trên trang thông tin điện tử của cơ quan nhà nước thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.
3. Quảng cáo trên trang thông tin điện tử của tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo xuyên biên giới có phát sinh doanh thu quảng cáo tại Việt Nam phải tuân thủ các quy định của Luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
4. Chính phủ quy định chi tiết khoản 3 Điều này.

Section 81. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên phương tiện điện tử, thiết bị đầu cuối và các thiết bị viễn thông khác 1. Quảng cáo bằng hình thức gửi tin nhắn, thư điện tử quảng cáo:
a) Tổ chức, cá nhân chỉ được phép gửi tin nhắn và thư điện tử quảng cáo khi có sự đồng ý trước của người nhận;
b) Nhà cung cấp dịch vụ thông tin điện tử, viễn thông chỉ được phép gửi tin nhắn, thư điện tử có nội dung quảng cáo về các dịch vụ của mình; chỉ được gửi tin nhắn quảng cáo đến điện thoại trong khoảng thời gian từ 07 giờ đến 22 giờ; không được gửi quá ba tin nhắn quảng cáo đến một số điện thoại, quá ba thư điện tử đến một địa chỉ thư điện tử trong vòng 24 giờ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác với người nhận;
c) Tổ chức, cá nhân quảng cáo phải bảo đảm cho người nhận có khả năng từ chối quảng cáo; phải chấm dứt ngay việc gửi tin nhắn, thư điện tử quảng cáo nếu người nhận thông báo từ chối quảng cáo và không được thu phí dịch vụ đối với thông báo từ chối của người nhận.
2. Quảng cáo bằng các hình thức khác trên phương tiện điện tử, thiết bị đầu cuối và các thiết bị viễn thông khác phải tuân theo các quy định của Luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
Mục 3. QUẢNG CÁO TRÊN CÁC SẢN PHẨM IN, BẢN GHI ÂM, GHI HÌNH VÀ CÁC THIẾT BỊ CÔNG NGHỆ KHÁC

Section 82. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên các sản phẩm in 
1. Đối với các loại sách và tài liệu dưới dạng sách, chỉ được quảng cáo về tác giả, tác phẩm, nhà xuất bản trên bìa hai, ba và bốn, trừ sách chuyên về quảng cáo.
2. Đối với tài liệu không kinh doanh, chỉ được quảng cáo về tác giả, tác phẩm, nhà xuất bản hoặc biểu trưng, lô-gô, nhãn hiệu hàng hóa, sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ và hoạt động của tổ chức, cá nhân được phép xuất bản tài liệu đó.
3. Đối với tranh, ảnh, áp-phích, ca-ta-lô, tờ rời, tờ gấp có nội dung cổ động, tuyên truyền về chính trị, kinh tế, văn hóa, xã hội, khoa học, công nghệ, văn học, nghệ thuật, được quảng cáo không quá 20% diện tích từng sản phẩm.
Biểu trưng, lô-gô, nhãn hiệu hàng hóa của người quảng cáo phải đặt ở phía dưới cùng của sản phẩm in.
4. Không được quảng cáo trên các sản phẩm in là tiền hoặc giấy tờ có giá, văn bằng chứng chỉ và văn bản quản lý nhà nước.
5. Quảng cáo trên tranh, ảnh, áp-phích, ca-ta-lô, tờ rời, tờ gấp và các sản phẩm in không thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3 và khoản 4 Điều này phải ghi rõ tên, địa chỉ tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo hoặc người quảng cáo, số lượng in, nơi in.

Section 83. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trong bản ghi âm, ghi hình 
Thời lượng quảng cáo trong bản ghi âm, ghi hình chương trình văn hoá, nghệ thuật, điện ảnh, bản ghi âm, ghi hình có nội dung thay sách hoặc minh họa cho sách không được vượt quá 5% tổng thời lượng nội dung chương trình.
Mục 4. QUẢNG CÁO TRÊN BẢNG QUẢNG CÁO, BĂNG-RÔN, BIỂN HIỆU, HỘP ĐÈN, MÀN HÌNH CHUYÊN QUẢNG CÁO VÀ PHƯƠNG TIỆN GIAO THÔNG

Section 84. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn 
1. Việc đặt bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn phải tuân thủ quy định về khu vực bảo vệ di tích lịch sử, văn hóa; hành lang an toàn giao thông, đê điều, lưới điện quốc gia; không được che khuất đèn tín hiệu giao thông, bảng chỉ dẫn công cộng; không được chăng ngang qua đường giao thông và phải tuân thủ quy hoạch quảng cáo của địa phương và quy chuẩn kỹ thuật do cơ quan có thẩm quyền ban hành.
2. Các sản phẩm quảng cáo thể hiện trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn phải ghi rõ tên, địa chỉ của người thực hiện.
3. Quảng cáo trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn có nội dung tuyên truyền, cổ động chính trị, chính sách xã hội phải tuân theo những quy định sau:
a) Biểu trưng, lô-gô, nhãn hiệu hàng hóa của người quảng cáo phải đặt ở phía dưới cùng đối với bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn dọc và phía bên phải đối với băng-rôn ngang;
b) Diện tích thể hiện của biểu trưng, lô-gô, nhãn hiệu hàng hóa của người quảng cáo không quá 20% diện tích bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn.
4. Thời hạn treo băng-rôn không quá 15 ngày.

Section 85. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên màn hình chuyên quảng cáo 
1. Việc đặt màn hình chuyên quảng cáo phải tuân theo quy định của Luật này, quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan và quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời của địa phương.
2. Khi thực hiện quảng cáo trên màn hình chuyên quảng cáo đặt ngoài trời không được dùng âm thanh.
3. Quảng cáo trên màn hình không thuộc quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này được sử dụng âm thanh theo quy định của pháp luật về môi trường.

Section 86. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hồ sơ thông báo sản phẩm quảng cáo trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn 
1. Văn bản thông báo sản phẩm quảng cáo ghi rõ nội dung, thời gian, địa điểm quảng cáo, số lượng bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn.
2. Bản sao giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh của người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo hoặc giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh của người quảng cáo trong trường hợp tự thực hiện quảng cáo.
3. Bản sao giấy tờ chứng minh sự hợp chuẩn, hợp quy của sản phẩm, hàng hoá, dịch vụ theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc giấy tờ chứng minh đủ điều kiện để quảng cáo theo quy định tại

Section 87. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
của Luật này.
4. Bản sao văn bản về việc tổ chức sự kiện của đơn vị tổ chức trong trường hợp quảng cáo cho sự kiện, chính sách xã hội.
5. Ma-két sản phẩm quảng cáo in mầu có chữ ký của người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo hoặc chữ ký của người quảng cáo trong trường hợp tự thực hiện quảng cáo. Trong trường hợp người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo, người quảng cáo là tổ chức thì phải có dấu của tổ chức.
6. Văn bản chứng minh quyền sở hữu hoặc quyền sử dụng bảng quảng cáo; quyền sở hữu hoặc quyền sử dụng địa điểm quảng cáo đối với băng-rôn.
7. Bản phối cảnh vị trí đặt bảng quảng cáo.
8. Bản sao giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo đối với loại bảng quảng cáo phải có giấy phép xây dựng theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 88. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Trình tự thông báo sản phẩm quảng cáo trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn 
1. Tổ chức, cá nhân có nhu cầu thực hiện quảng cáo trên bảng quảng cáo, băng-rôn phải gửi hồ sơ thông báo sản phẩm quảng cáo đến cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương trước khi thực hiện quảng cáo 15 ngày.
2. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương xác nhận về việc nhận hồ sơ, nếu không có ý kiến trả lời thì tổ chức, cá nhân được thực hiện sản phẩm quảng cáo đã thông báo. Trong trường hợp cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương không đồng ý, phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do.

Section 89. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo 
1. Việc xây dựng màn hình chuyên quảng cáo ngoài trời, biển hiệu, bảng quảng cáo độc lập hoặc gắn vào công trình xây dựng có trước phải tuân theo quy định của Luật này, quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan và quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời của địa phương.
2. Việc xây dựng màn hình chuyên quảng cáo ngoài trời, biển hiệu, bảng quảng cáo độc lập hoặc gắn vào công trình xây dựng có sẵn phải xin giấy phép xây dựng của cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương trong những trường hợp sau đây:
a) Xây dựng màn hình chuyên quảng cáo ngoài trời có diện tích một mặt từ 20 mét vuông (m2) trở lên;
b) Xây dựng biển hiệu, bảng quảng cáo có diện tích một mặt trên 20 mét vuông (m2) kết cấu khung kim loại hoặc vật liệu xây dựng tương tự gắn vào công trình xây dựng có sẵn;
c) Bảng quảng cáo đứng độc lập có diện tích một mặt từ 40 mét vuông (m2) trở lên.
3. Hồ sơ đề nghị cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo gồm có:
a) Đơn đề nghị cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo;
b) Bản sao giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh của tổ chức, cá nhân đề nghị cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo;
c) Bản sao có chứng thực một trong những loại giấy tờ sau: giấy chứng nhận quyền sử dụng đất; văn bản thoả thuận hoặc hợp đồng thuê đất theo quy định của pháp luật về đất đai đối với công trình quảng cáo đứng độc lập; hợp đồng thuê địa điểm giữa chủ đầu tư xây dựng công trình quảng cáo với chủ sở hữu hoặc chủ sử dụng hợp pháp đối với công trình quảng cáo gắn với công trình xây dựng có sẵn hoặc văn bản thông báo kết quả trúng thầu đối với trường hợp địa điểm quảng cáo trong quy hoạch phải tổ chức đấu thầu;
d) Trường hợp công trình quảng cáo gắn với công trình đã có trước phải có văn bản thoả thuận hoặc hợp đồng của chủ đầu tư xây dựng công trình quảng cáo với chủ sở hữu hoặc người được giao quyền quản lý công trình đã có trước;
đ) Bản vẽ thiết kế của tổ chức thiết kế hợp pháp thể hiện được vị trí mặt bằng, mặt cắt, mặt đứng điển hình; mặt bằng móng của công trình có chữ ký và đóng dấu của chủ đầu tư xây dựng công trình quảng cáo. Trường hợp công trình quảng cáo gắn vào công trình đã có trước thì bản vẽ thiết kế phải thể hiện được giải pháp liên kết công trình quảng cáo vào công trình đã có trước.
4. Trình tự, thủ tục cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo được thực hiện như sau:
a) Tổ chức, cá nhân đề nghị cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo nộp hồ sơ tại cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương;
b) Trường hợp địa điểm quảng cáo nằm trong quy hoạch quảng cáo đã được Ủy ban nhân dân cấp tỉnh phê duyệt, trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận hồ sơ hợp lệ, cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo cho tổ chức, cá nhân. Trường hợp không cấp giấy phép, phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do;
c) Trường hợp địa phương chưa phê duyệt quy hoạch quảng cáo, trong thời hạn 02 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận hồ sơ hợp lệ, cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương gửi văn bản xin ý kiến các sở, ban, ngành liên quan. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản xin ý kiến của cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương, các sở, ban, ngành nêu trên phải có ý kiến trả lời bằng văn bản gửi cho cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương. Trong thời hạn 13 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được ý kiến của các sở, ban, ngành nêu trên, cơ quan có thẩm quyền về xây dựng của địa phương phải cấp giấy phép xây dựng công trình quảng cáo cho tổ chức, cá nhân. Trường hợp không cấp giấy phép, phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do.

Section 90. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trên phương tiện giao thông 
1. Việc quảng cáo trên phương tiện giao thông phải tuân thủ các quy định của Luật này và pháp luật về giao thông.
2. Không được thể hiện sản phẩm quảng cáo ở mặt trước, mặt sau và trên nóc của phương tiện giao thông. Sản phẩm quảng cáo không được vượt quá 50% diện tích mỗi mặt được phép quảng cáo của phương tiện giao thông. Việc thể hiện biểu trưng, lô-gô, biểu tượng của chủ phương tiện giao thông hoặc hãng xe trên phương tiện giao thông phải tuân thủ các quy định của pháp luật về giao thông.

Section 91. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo bằng loa phóng thanh và hình thức tương tự 
1. Quảng cáo bằng loa phóng thanh và hình thức tương tự tại địa điểm cố định phải tuân thủ quy định sau:
a) Quảng cáo không được vượt quá độ ồn cho phép theo quy định của pháp luật về môi trường;
b) Không được quảng cáo tại trụ sở cơ quan, đơn vị lực lượng vũ trang, trường học, bệnh viện;
c) Không được quảng cáo trên hệ thống truyền thanh phục vụ nhiệm vụ chính trị của xã, phường, thị trấn.
2. Không được quảng cáo bằng loa phóng thanh gắn với phương tiện giao thông và các phương tiện di động khác tại nội thành, nội thị của thành phố, thị xã.

Section 92. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Biển hiệu của tổ chức, cá nhân hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh 1. Biển hiệu phải có các nội dung sau:
a) Tên cơ quan chủ quản trực tiếp (nếu có);
b) Tên cơ sở sản xuất, kinh doanh theo đúng giấy chứng nhận đăng ký kinh doanh;
c) Địa chỉ, điện thoại.
2. Việc thể hiện chữ viết trên biển hiệu phải tuân thủ quy định tại

Section 93. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
của Luật này.
3. Kích thước biển hiệu được quy định như sau:
a) Đối với biển hiệu ngang thì chiều cao tối đa là 02 mét (m), chiều dài không vượt quá chiều ngang mặt tiền nhà;
b) Đối với biển hiệu dọc thì chiều ngang tối đa là 01 mét (m), chiều cao tối đa là 04 mét (m) nhưng không vượt quá chiều cao của tầng nhà nơi đặt biển hiệu.
4. Biển hiệu không được che chắn không gian thoát hiểm, cứu hoả; không được lấn ra vỉa hè, lòng đường, ảnh hưởng đến giao thông công cộng.
5. Việc đặt biển hiệu phải tuân thủ các quy định của Luật này và quy chuẩn kỹ thuật do cơ quan có thẩm quyền ban hành.
Mục 5. QUẢNG CÁO TRONG CHƯƠNG TRÌNH VĂN HOÁ, THỂ THAO, HỘI NGHỊ, HỘI THẢO, HỘI CHỢ, TRIỂN LÃM, TỔ CHỨC SỰ KIỆN, ĐOÀN NGƯỜI THỰC HIỆN QUẢNG CÁO, VẬT THỂ QUẢNG CÁO

Section 94. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo trong chương trình văn hoá, thể thao 
1. Quảng cáo trong chương trình văn hóa, thể thao phải thực hiện theo pháp luật về nghệ thuật biểu diễn và thể dục, thể thao.
2. Không được treo, đặt, dán, dựng sản phẩm quảng cáo ngang bằng hoặc cao hơn biểu trưng, lô- gô hoặc tên của chương trình; khổ chữ thể hiện trên sản phẩm quảng cáo không quá một phần hai khổ chữ tên của chương trình.
3. Quảng cáo trên khu vực sân khấu phải đảm bảo mỹ quan và không được che khuất tầm nhìn của người xem.
4. Quảng cáo trong sân vận động, nhà thi đấu và các địa điểm diễn ra hoạt động thể dục thể thao không được che khuất Quốc kỳ, Quốc huy, ảnh lãnh tụ, bảng hướng dẫn chuyên môn và tầm nhìn của khán giả; không làm ảnh hưởng đến hoạt động tập luyện, thi đấu, biểu diễn của vận động viên, việc chỉ đạo của huấn luyện viên và việc thực hiện nhiệm vụ của ban tổ chức, trọng tài, nhân viên hướng dẫn, y tế, người phục vụ.

Section 95. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo, hội thảo, hội nghị, hội chợ, triển lãm, tổ chức sự kiện, vật thể quảng cáo 1. Đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo phải tuân theo các quy định sau:
a) Đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo là đoàn người có từ ba người trở lên mặc trang phục hoặc mang theo hình ảnh, vật dụng thể hiện sản phẩm quảng cáo tại một địa điểm hoặc di chuyển trên đường giao thông;
b) Đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo phải bảo đảm trật tự an toàn giao thông, an toàn xã hội; tuân thủ các quy định pháp luật về hoạt động quảng cáo và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan;
c) Tổ chức, cá nhân tổ chức đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo phải thông báo với cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương về nội dung, hình thức sản phẩm quảng cáo, số lượng người tham gia đoàn người thực hiện quảng cáo, thời gian và lộ trình thực hiện chậm nhất là 15 ngày trước ngày thực hiện quảng cáo.
Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được thông báo, nếu cơ quan có thẩm quyền về quảng cáo của địa phương không đồng ý với thông báo thì phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do. Quá thời hạn trên mà không có văn bản trả lời thì tổ chức, cá nhân được thực hiện quảng cáo theo nội dung đã thông báo.
2. Hội thảo, hội nghị, tổ chức sự kiện, triển lãm, người chuyển tải sản phẩm quảng cáo, vật thể quảng cáo và phương tiện quảng cáo khác phải tuân thủ các quy định tại Luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan, bảo đảm mỹ quan đô thị, cảnh quan môi trường, trật tự an toàn giao thông, trật tự an toàn xã hội.
Mục 6. QUY HOẠCH QUẢNG CÁO NGOÀI TRỜI

Section 96. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Nội dung và nguyên tắc quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời 
1. Quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời phải xác định địa điểm, kiểu dáng, kích thước, chất liệu, số lượng các phương tiện quảng cáo trên đường quốc lộ, tỉnh lộ, huyện lộ; trong nội thành, nội thị.
2. Việc xây dựng quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời phải tuân thủ các nguyên tắc cơ bản sau đây:
a) Phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật về quảng cáo, xây dựng, giao thông và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan;
b) Phù hợp với quy hoạch xây dựng của địa phương, bảo đảm mỹ quan đô thị, an toàn giao thông và trật tự an toàn xã hội;
c) Bảo đảm tính ổn định, công khai, minh bạch và khả thi;
d) Bảo đảm sự thống nhất, hài hòa giữa các địa phương tại các điểm tiếp giáp trên trục đường quốc lộ, tỉnh lộ;
đ) Ưu tiên kế thừa các vị trí quảng cáo phù hợp với quy hoạch đã có trước; trong trường hợp thực hiện hoặc điều chỉnh quy hoạch gây thiệt hại cho tổ chức, cá nhân thì cơ quan phê duyệt quy hoạch có trách nhiệm tổ chức đền bù theo quy định của pháp luật;
e) Lấy ý kiến các tổ chức, cá nhân tham gia hoạt động quảng cáo và nhân dân.
3. Chính phủ quy định cụ thể về hồ sơ, quy trình xây dựng, phê duyệt, thực hiện và điều chỉnh quy hoạch quảng cáo.

Section 97. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Trách nhiệm xây dựng và chỉ đạo thực hiện quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời 1. Ủy ban nhân dân cấp tỉnh có trách nhiệm:
a) Xây dựng và phê duyệt quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời tại địa phương trong thời hạn 12 tháng, kể từ ngày Luật này có hiệu lực;
b) Điều chỉnh quy hoạch quảng cáo theo các giai đoạn phù hợp với sự phát triển của địa phương;
c) Niêm yết văn bản quy hoạch và bản vẽ chi tiết quy hoạch tại trụ sở Ủy ban nhân dân các cấp và công bố trên các phương tiện thông tin đại chúng của địa phương;
d) Hướng dẫn, đôn đốc, kiểm tra việc thực hiện quy hoạch quảng cáo ngoài trời.
2. Bộ Xây dựng có trách nhiệm:
a) Ban hành quy chuẩn kỹ thuật về phương tiện quảng cáo ngoài trời trong thời hạn 06 tháng, kể từ ngày Luật này có hiệu lực;
b) Phối hợp với Bộ Văn hóa, Thể thao và Du lịch, Bộ Giao thông vận tải và các Bộ có liên quan hướng dẫn các địa phương quy hoạch quảng cáo theo quy chuẩn kỹ thuật do Bộ Xây dựng ban hành.
Chương IV 
QUẢNG CÁO CÓ YẾU TỐ NƯỚC NGOÀI

Section 98. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quảng cáo của tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài tại Việt Nam 
1. Tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài hoạt động tại Việt Nam được quảng cáo về sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ và hoạt động của mình tại Việt Nam theo quy định của Luật này.
2. Tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài không hoạt động tại Việt Nam có nhu cầu quảng cáo về sản phẩm, hàng hóa, dịch vụ và hoạt động của mình tại Việt Nam phải thuê người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo của Việt Nam thực hiện.

Section 99. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hợp tác, đầu tư với nước ngoài trong hoạt động quảng cáo 
1. Tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài được hợp tác, đầu tư với người kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo của Việt Nam theo hình thức liên doanh và hợp đồng hợp tác kinh doanh.
2. Việc hợp tác, đầu tư nước ngoài trong hoạt động quảng cáo phải tuân theo các quy định pháp luật về đầu tư.

Section 100. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Văn phòng đại diện của doanh nghiệp quảng cáo nước ngoài tại Việt Nam 1. Doanh nghiệp quảng cáo nước ngoài được phép thành lập văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam.
2. Văn phòng đại diện được hoạt động khi có giấy phép của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp tỉnh nơi doanh nghiệp nước ngoài đề nghị thành lập văn phòng đại diện.
3. Văn phòng đại diện chỉ được xúc tiến quảng cáo, không được trực tiếp kinh doanh dịch vụ quảng cáo.
4. Chính phủ quy định thẩm quyền, hồ sơ, trình tự, thủ tục cấp phép thành lập văn phòng đại diện của doanh nghiệp quảng cáo nước ngoài tại Việt Nam.
Chương V 
ĐIỀU KHOẢN THI HÀNH

Section 101. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Hiệu lực thi hành Luật này có hiệu lực thi hành từ ngày 01 tháng 01 năm 2013.
Pháp lệnh quảng cáo số 39/2001/PL-UBTVQH10 ngày 16 tháng 11 năm 2001 hết hiệu lực thi hành kể từ ngày Luật này có hiệu lực thi hành.

Section 102. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Law on Advertising No. 16/2012/QH13.
Quy định chi tiết và hướng dẫn thi hành 
Chính phủ, cơ quan có thẩm quyền quy định chi tiết, hướng dẫn thi hành các điều, khoản được giao trong Luật.
Luật này đã được Quốc hội nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam khóa XIII, kỳ họp thứ 3 thông qua ngày 21 tháng 6 năm 2012. 
CHỦ TỊCH QUỐC HỘI 
Nguyễn Sinh Hùng 
Legislation 
Is implemented by (1 text(s) ) 
Is implemented by (1 text(s) ) 
Decree No. 158/2013/ND-CP of November 12, 2013, on Penalties for Administrative Violations Pertaining to Culture, Sports, Tourism and Advertising (VN104)
Historical Versions 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Decree No. 39-2001-PL-UBTVQH10 on Advertisement (VN027)
No data available. 
WIPO Lex No. 
VN084
