Vietnam source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13
Category: Core codes
Source URL: https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/17200
Note: WIPO Lex English reference text; Vietnamese official text prevails.

Section 1. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
er Express Database 
Nice Classification 
Vienna Classification 
Global Design Database 
International Designs Bulletin 
Hague Express Database 
Locarno Classification 
Lisbon Express Database 
Global Brand Database for GIs 
PLUTO Plant Variety Database 
GENIE Database 
WIPO-Administered Treaties 
WIPO Lex - IP Laws, Treaties & Judgments 
WIPO Standards 
IP Statistics 
WIPO Pearl (Terminology) 
WIPO Publications 
Country IP Profiles 
WIPO Knowledge Center 
World Intangible Investment Highlights 
WIPO Technology Trends 
Global Innovation Index 
World Intellectual Property Report 
PCT – The International Patent System 
ePCT 
Budapest – The International Microorganism Deposit System 
Madrid – The International Trademark System 
eMadrid

Section 2. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
er (armorial bearings, flags, state emblems) 
Hague – The International Design System 
eHague 
Lisbon – The International System of Appellations of Origin and Geographical Indications 
eLisbon 
UPOV PRISMA 
Mediation 
Arbitration 
Expert Determination 
Domain Name Disputes 
Centralized Access to Search and Examination (CASE) 
Digital Access Service (DAS) 
WIPO Pay 
Current Account at WIPO 
WIPO Assemblies 
Standing Committees 
Calendar of Meetings 
WIPO Webcast 
WIPO Official Documents 
Development Agenda 
Tailored Initiatives & Projects 
Collaborative Forums & Dialogues 
Innovation, Creativity and Development Acceleration Program 
IP for Impact 
National IP Strategies 
Cooperation Hub 
Technology and Innovation Support Centers (TISC) 
Technology Transfer 
Inventor Assistance Program 
WIPO GREEN 
WIPO's Pat-INFORMED 
Accessible Books Consortium 
WIPO for Creators 
WIPO Translate 
Speech-to-Text 
Classification Assistant 
Member States 
Observers 
Director General 
Activities by Unit 
External Offices 
Staff Positions 
Affiliated Personnel Positions 
Procurement 
Results & Budget 
Financial Reporting 
Oversight 
Arabic 
English 
Spanish 
French 
Russian 
Chinese 
Laws 
Treaties 
Judgments 
Browse By Jurisdiction 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015, Viet Nam 
Back 
Latest Version in WIPO Lex 
Details 
Details 
Year of Version 
2017 
Dates 
Entry into force: 
January 1, 2017 
Adopted: 
November 24, 2015 
Type of Text 
Framework Laws
Subject Matter 
Copyright and Related Rights (Neighboring Rights), 
Industrial Property
Notes 
The Civil Code includes the following provisions relating to intellectual property rights:
- Part One, Chapter II,

Section 3. Original section/article: 115. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
;
- Part Two, Chapter XIII,

Section 4. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, Articles 221 and 222;
- Part Five, Chapter XXVII, Articles 679 and 683. 
Available Materials
Main Text(s) 
Related Text(s) 
Main text(s) 
Main text(s) 
English 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015 
Vietnamese 
Bộ Luật dân sự số 91/2015/QH13 ngày 24/11/2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015 
﻿ Civil Code (Law No. 91/2015/QH13) 
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY 
-------- 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM Independence - Freedom - Happiness 
--------------- The Law No. 91/2015/QH13 Hanoi, November 24, 2015 
CIVIL CODE Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; 
The National Assembly promulgates a Civil Code. 
PART ONE 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Chapter I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 5. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope 
The Civil Code provides the legal status, legal standards for the conduct of natural and juridical persons; the rights and obligations of natural and juridical person (hereinafter referred to as persons) regarding personal and property rights and obligations in relations established on the basis of equality, freedom of will, independence of property and self-responsibility (hereinafter referred to as civil relations).

Section 6. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Recognition, respect, protection and guarantee of civil rights 
1. In the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, all civil rights are recognized, respected, protected and guaranteed under the Constitution and law.
2. Civil rights may be limited as prescribed in law in exceptional circumstances that due to national defense and security, social safety and order, social ethics and the community's health.

Section 7. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Basic principles of civil law 
1. Every person shall be equal in civil relations, may not use any reason for unequal treatment to others, and enjoy the same protection policies of law regarding moral rights and economic rights.
2. Each person establishes, exercises/fulfills and terminates his/her civil rights and obligations on the basis of freely and voluntarily entering into commitments and/or agreements. Each commitment or agreement that does not violate regulations of law and is not contrary to social ethics shall be bound by contracting parties and must be respected by other entities.
3. Each person must establish, exercise/ fulfill, or terminate his/her civil rights and/or obligations in the principle of goodwill and honesty.
4. The establishment, exercise and termination of civil rights and/or obligations may not infringe national interests, pubic interests, lawful rights and interests of other persons.
5. Each person shall be liable for his/her failure to fulfill or the incorrect fulfillment of any such civil obligations.

Section 8. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of the Civil Code 1. This Law is a common law that applies to civil relations.
2. Any relevant law that applies to civil relations in specific fields may not be contrary to the basic principle of civil law prescribed in

Section 9. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Law.
3. If another relevant law has no regulation or has regulations that infringe Clause 2 of this Article, the regulations of this Law shall apply.
4. In cases where an international agreement to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory contains provisions different from the provisions of this Code with regard to a same matter, the provisions of such agreement shall apply.

Section 10. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of practices 
1. Practices mean rules of conduct obvious to define rights and obligations of persons in specific civil relations, forming and repeating in a long time, recognized and applying generally in a region, race, or a community or a field of civil.
2. In cases where it is neither provided for by law nor agreed upon by the parties, practices may apply but they must not contravene the principles provided for in

Section 11. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of analogy of law 
1. In cases where a issue rises under scope of civil law which it is neither provided for by law nor agreed upon by the parties nor, nor applied by practices, analogy of law shall apply.
2. In cases where it is neither provided for by law nor agreed upon by the parties, practices may apply but they must not contravene the principles provided for in

Section 12. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
State policies on civil relations 
1. The establishment, performance and termination of civil rights and obligations must ensure the preservation of national identities, respect and promote good customs, practices and traditions, solidarity, mutual affection and cooperation, the principle of every individual for the community and the community for every individual and the noble ethical values of ethnicities living together on Vietnamese soil.
2. In civil relations, the conciliation between contracting parties in accordance with regulations of law shall be encouraged.
Chapter II 
ESTABLISHMENT, EXERCISE AND PROTECTION OF CIVIL RIGHTS

Section 13. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for establishment of civil rights Civil rights shall be established on the following bases:
1. Contracts;
2. Unilateral legal acts;
3. Decisions of courts or other competent state agencies as prescribed;
4. Outcomes of labor, production and business; or creation of subjects of intellectual property rights;
5. Possession of property;
6. Illegal use of assets or illegal gain therefrom;
7. Damage caused by an illegal act;
8. Performance of a task without authorization;
9. Other bases specified by law.

Section 14. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exercise of civil rights 
1. Each person shall exercise his/her civil on his/her own will in accordance with

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The non-exercise of civil rights does not constitute a basis for termination of those rights, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 16. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitations on exercise of civil rights 
1. Each person may not abuse his/her own civil rights to cause damage to other persons or violate his/her own obligations or for other unlawful purposes.
2. If a person fails to comply with Clause 1 of this Article, a court or a competent agency shall, according to the nature and consequences of the violation, either protect part or the whole of his/her rights, compel him/her to given compensation and other sanctions as prescribed by law.

Section 17. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Methods for protecting civil rights 
If a person has his/her civil rights violated, he/she may protect them himself/herself as prescribed in this Code, other relevant laws or request competent authorities to:
1. Recognize, respect, protect and guarantee of his/her civil rights;
2. Order the termination of the act of violation;
3. Order a public apology and/or rectification;
4. Order the performance of civil obligations;
5. Order compensation for damage;
6. Cancellation of isolated unlawful decision of competent agencies, organizations or persons;
7. Other requirements specified by law.

Section 18. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Self-protection of civil rights 
The self-protection of a particular civil right must conform to the nature and severity of the violation against such civil right and be not contrary to basic principles of civil law prescribed in

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage 
Each person has his/her civil rights violated shall be eligible for total damage, unless otherwise agreed by parties or unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 20. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Protection of civil rights by competent authorities 1. Each court and a competent authority must respect and protect civil rights of persons.
If a particular civil right is violated or is under a dispute, the protection of such right shall be implemented as prescribed in procedural law at the court or arbitrator.
The protection of civil rights under administrative procedures shall be implemented as prescribed by law. A decision on settlement of case/matter under administrative procedures may be re- examined at a court.
2. Each court may not refuse to settle a civil matter or case with the season that there is no provision of law to apply; in this case, regulations in

Section 21. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall apply.

Section 22. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of isolated unlawful decisions of competent agencies, organizations or persons 
A court or a competent authority is entitled to cancel an isolated decision of another competent agency, organization or person, upon a request for protection of civil rights.
If the isolated decision is cancelled, the civil right against which the decision violates shall be restored and protected by the methods prescribed in

Section 23. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Chapter III 
NATURAL PERSONS

Section 24. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
LEGAL PERSONALITY AND LEGAL CAPACITY OF NATURAL PERSONS

Section 25. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal personality of natural persons 
1. The legal personality of a natural person is his/her capability to have civil rights and civil obligations.
2. All individuals shall have the same legal personality.
3. The legal personality of a natural person commences at birth and terminates at death.

Section 26. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of the legal personality of a natural person 1. Personal rights not associated with property, and personal rights associated with property.
2. Ownership rights, inheritance rights and other rights with respect to property.
3. Rights to participate in civil relations and to assume obligations arising out of such relations.

Section 27. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
No restrictions on the legal personality of natural persons 
The legal personality of a natural person shall not be restricted, unless otherwise provided for by law.

Section 28. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal capacity of natural persons 
The legal capacity of a natural person is his/her capability to establish and exercise civil rights and perform civil obligations through his/her acts.

Section 29. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Adults 1. Adults are persons who are eighteen years of age or older.
2. Each adult shall have full legal capacity, except for the cases prescribed in Articles 22, 23 and 24 of this Code.

Section 30. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Minors 1. Minors are persons who are under eighteen years of age.
2. Civil transactions of each child under six years of age shall be established and performed by his/her legal representative.
3. Each person who is from six to under eighteen years of age must have the consent of his/her legal representative to enter in and perform civil transactions, except for civil transactions which are performed for the purpose of meeting the needs of daily life suitable for the age group.
4. Each person who is from fifteen to under eighteen years of age is entitled to enter in and perform civil transactions by himself/herself, except for civil transactions related to real estate, movables required registration and other civil transactions as prescribed by law that are subject to the consent of his/her legal representative.

Section 31. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lack of legal capacity 
1. A court shall, based on the opinion of forensic-psychiatric examination by any authorized organization and at the request of a person with related rights or interests or a relevant agency or organization, issue a decision to declare a legally incapacitated person who as a result of his/her mental or other illnesses cannot realize or conduct his/her actions.
Where the basis on which a person has been declared incapacitated no longer exists, the court shall, at the request of such person or any person with related rights or interests, issue a decision to revoke the decision declaring the incapacitated person.
2. All civil transactions of a legally incapacitated person shall be established and performed by his/her legal representative.

Section 32. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Persons with limited cognition or behavior control 
1. A court shall, based on the opinion of forensic-psychiatric examination by any authorized organization and at the request of a person with related rights or interests or a relevant agency or organization, issue a decision to declare an adult with limited cognition or behavior control due to his/her physical or spiritual condition, and appoint a legal guardian and define rights and obligations of such guardian.
2. Where the basis on which a person has been declared limited cognition or behavior control no longer exists, the court shall, at the request of such person or any person with related rights or interests, issue a decision to revoke the decision declaring the person with limited cognition or behavior control.

Section 33. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Persons with limited legal capacity 
1. A court shall, at the request of a person with related rights or interests or a relevant agency or organization, issue a decision to declare a person with limited legal capacity after excessive drug consumption or other psychotropic substances, worsening material situation of the family.
The court shall appoint a legal representative of the person with limited legal capacity and the representation scope.
2. All civil transactions related to the property of a person with limited legal capacity declared by a court must obtain the consent of his/her legal representative, except for transactions to meet the needs of daily life.
3. Where the basis on which a person has been declared limited capacity of exercise no longer exists, the court shall, at the request of such person or any person with related rights or interests, issue a decision to revoke the decision declaring the incapacitated person.

Section 34. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Personal rights 
1. Personal rights specified in this Code are civil rights inherent to each natural person, which cannot be transferred to other persons, unless otherwise provided for by other laws.
2. All civil relations relating to personal rights of a minor, a legally incapacitated persons, or a person with limited cognition or behavior control shall be established and performed with the consent of his/her legal representative as prescribed in this Code, other relevant laws or decisions of a court.
All civil relations relating to personal rights of a person declared missing or dead shall be established and performed with the consent of his/her spouse or adult children; or his/her parents if he/she has no spouse or child, unless otherwise provided for by this Code or other relevant laws.

Section 35. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to have family and given names 
1. Each natural person has right to have a family name and a given name (including a middle name, if any). The family and given names of a person shall be the family and given names in the birth certificate of such person.
2. The family name of a person shall be passed from his/her biological father's or mother’s as mutually agreed between the parents; if the parents fails to agree, the person’s family name shall be determined according to customary practices. If the father of such person is undetermined, his/her family name shall be passed from his/her natural mother’s.
If an abandoned child whose natural parents are unidentified is adopted, his/her family name shall be passed from his/her adoptive father’s or mother’s as mutually agreed between the parents. If the child has either an adoptive father or an adoptive mother, his/her family name shall be passed from such person’s.
If an abandoned child whose natural parents are unidentified and he/she has not been adopted but has been fostered by a foster establishment or a , his/her family name shall be determined at the request of the head of such foster family or at the request of the person registering the birth of the child.
Biological father and mother specified in this Code means a father and mother determined at the event of parturition; intended father and mother and the resulting child as prescribed in the Law on marriage and families.
3. The naming is restricted in case it violates lawful rights and interests of other people and contravenes basic principles of civil law prescribed in

Section 36. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
The name of each Vietnamese citizen must be in Vietnamese or other ethnic minority languages of Vietnam and not include any figure or any symbol other than a letter.
4. Each natural person shall enter in and perform his/her civil rights and obligations following his/her family and given name.
5. A person may not use his/her code name or pen name to cause damage to the lawful rights and interests of other people.

Section 37. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to change family names 
1. An individual has the right to request a competent authority to recognize a change of a family name in any of the following cases:
a) Changing the family name of a natural child from biological father’s to biological mother's or vice versa;
b) Changing the family name of an adopted child from biological father’s or mother’s to adoptive father's or mother’s at the request of the adoptive parents;
c) If a person ceases to be an adopted child and such person or his/her biological father or mother request to reclaim the family name which is given by the biological father or mother;
d) Changing the family name of a person whose biological parents have been identified upon the request on that father or mother or such person;
dd) Changing the family name of a lost person who has discovered the origin of his/her bloodline;
e) Changing the family name of a person to his/her spouse’s in the marriage and family relations involving foreign elements in accordance with law of the country in which the foreign spouse is a citizen or retrieves his/her family name before the change;
g) Changing the family names of children upon the change of family names of their father’s or mother’s;
h) Other cases prescribed in by law on civil status affairs.
2. The changing of the family name of a person who is nine years of age or older shall be subject to the consent of such person.
3. The changing of a family name shall not change or terminate the civil rights and obligations which were established in the former family name.

Section 38. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to change given names 
1. An individual has the right to request a competent authority to recognize the change of a given name in any of the following cases:
a) Where it is so requested by the person who has a given name which causes confusion or has an adverse effect on his/her feelings or on his/her honor, legitimate rights and interests;
c) Where the adoptive father or mother of the person wishes to change the given name of their adopted child; of if a person ceases to be an adopted child and such person or his/her biological father or mother request to reclaim the given name which is given by the biological father or mother;
d) Changing the given name of a person whose biological parents have been identified upon the request on that father or mother or such person;
dd) Changing the given name of a lost person who has discovered the origin of his/her bloodline;
dd) Change the given name of a person to his/her spouse’s in the marriage and family relations involving foreign elements in accordance with law of the country in which the foreign spouse is a citizen retrieves his/her family name before the change;
e) Changing of given name of a person whose gender identity is re-determined or a transgender person;
g) Other cases prescribed in by law on civil status affairs.
2. The changing of the given name of a person who is nine years of age or older shall be subject to the consent of such person.
3. The changing of a given name shall not change or terminate the civil rights and obligations which were established in the former given name.

Section 39. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to indentify and re-identify ethnicity 1. Each individual has the right to identify and re-identify his/her ethnicity.
2. Each individual shall have his/her ethnicity identified at birth in accordance with the ethnicity of his/her biological father and mother. Where the biological father and mother belong to two different ethnic groups, the ethnicity of the child shall be passed from the father’s or mother’s as mutually agreed between the parents; if the parents fail to agree, the ethnicity of the child shall be identified in accordance with relevant customary practices; if the customary practices are different, the ethnicity of the child shall be identified in accordance with the customary practice of smaller ethnic minority.
If an abandoned child whose natural parents are unidentified is adopted, his/her ethnicity shall be passed from his/her adoptive father’s or mother’s as mutually agreed between the parents. If the child has either an adoptive father or an adoptive mother, his/her ethnicity shall be passed from such person’s.
If an abandoned child whose natural parents are unidentified and he/she has not been adopted but has been fostered by a foster establishment, his/her ethnicity shall be identified at the request of the head of such foster family or at the request of the person temporarily fostering the child at the time when the birth of the child is registered.
3. An individual has the right to request a competent authority to identify or re-identify the ethnicity in any of the following cases:
a) Re-identification of the ethnicity of the biological father or mother where they belong to two different ethnic groups;
b) Re-identification of the ethnicity of the biological father or mother where the adoptive child have their biological parents identified.
4. The re-identification of the ethnicity of a person who is from fifteen to eighteen years of age shall be subject to the consent of such person.
5. It is forbidden to abuse the ethnicity re-identification intended to profiteering or divisive, prejudicial to the unity of the ethnic groups of Vietnam.

Section 40. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to declaration of birth and death 1. When an individual is born, he/she has the right to have his/her birth declared.
2. When an individual dies, he/she has the right to have his/her death declared.
3. If a newborn dies after 24 hours or later from the time of birth, his/her birth and death must be declared; if he/she dies under 24 hours from the time of birth, his/her birth and death are not required to be declared, unless his/her biological father or mother request.
4. The declaration of birth and death shall be prescribed in by law on civil status affairs.

Section 41. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to nationality 1. Each individual has the right to nationality.
2. The identification, change, acquirement, renouncement, or assume of Vietnamese nationality shall be stipulated in the Law on Vietnamese nationality.
3. Rights of each non-nationality resident within Vietnam’s territory shall be guaranteed as prescribed by law.

Section 42. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of an individual with respect to his/her image 1. Each individual has rights with respect to his/her own image.
The use of an image of an individual must have his/her consent.
When an image of an individual is used for commercial purposes, that person is eligible for a remuneration, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The use of image for any of the following purposes needs not the consent of the image’s owner or his/her legal representative:
a) For national and public benefits;
b) For public activities, including conventions, seminars, sports activities, art shows and other public activities that do not infringe the honor, dignity or prestige of the image’s owner.
3. If the use of an image violates the regulation prescribed in this Article, the image’s owner has the right to request a court to issue a decision that compel the violator or relevant entities to revoke, destroy or terminate the use of the image, compensate for damage and adopt other measures as prescribed in law.

Section 43. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to life, right to safety of life, health and body 
1. Each individual has the right to life, the inviolable right to life and body, the right to health protection by law. No one shall be killed illegally.
2. When any person has a life threatening accident or illness, a person who discovers such situation must take such person or require suitable entities to a nearest health facility; the health facility must provide medical examination and treatment in accordance with law on medical examination and treatment.
3. The consent of a person is required for the anesthesia, surgery, amputation, transplant of his/her tissues or bodily organs; the application of new medical cures to that person; medical, pharmacy or scientific testing or any method of testing on a human body.
If the person is a minor, a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition or behavior control or an unconscious patient, the consent of his/her father, mother, spouse, grown child or legal guardian is required; in cases where there is a threat to the life of the patient which
cannot wait for the consent of the aforesaid persons, a decision of the head of the health facility is required.
4. A post-mortem operation shall be performed in any of the following cases:
a) The deceased person expressed consent prior to death;
b) In the absence of such consent, the consent of a parent, spouse, grown child or legal guardian of the deceased was obtained;
c) In necessary cases, pursuant to a decision of the head of the health facility or a competent authority as prescribed in law.

Section 44. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to protection of honor, dignity and prestige 1. Honor, dignity and prestige of an individual is inviolable and protected by law.
2. Each individual has the right to request a court to reject any piece of information adversely affecting to his/her honor, dignity and/or prestige.
The honor, dignity and prestige of a deceased person shall be protected at the request of his/her spouse or grown children; or his/her parent if he/she has no spouse or child, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. If a piece of information adversely affecting to the honor, dignity and prestige of a person is posted on a mean of mass media, that piece of information shall be removed or rectified by that kind of mean. If that piece of information is kept by an agency, organization or individual, such entity is required to cancel it.
4. In case it is impossible to identify the person informing the information adversely affecting the honor, dignity and/or prestige of a person, the latter person has the right to request a court to declare that such piece of information is incorrect.
5. The person receiving the information adversely affected his/her honor, dignity and/or prestige both has the right to request rejection of such piece of information and has the right to require to informing person gives a public apology and rectification and compensation.

Section 45. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to donate or receive human tissues and body organs and donate corpses 
1. Each individual has the right to donate his/her tissues or body organs when he/she is alive or donate his/her tissues, body organs or corpse after his/her death for the purpose of medical treatment of other persons or medical, pharmacy or other scientific researches.
2. Each individual has the right to receive tissues and/or body organs of other persons for his/her medical treatment. Health facilities and juridical persons competent to scientific research have the right to receive human body organs and/or corpses for the purpose of medical treatment or medical, pharmacy or other scientific researches.
3. The donation or removal of human tissues and body organs and donation or removal of corpses must comply with statutory requirements and regulations of this Code, the Law on donation, removal and transplantation of human tissues and organs, and donation or removal of corpses and other relevant laws.

Section 46. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to re-determine gender identity 1. An individual has the right to re-determine his/her gender identity.
The re-determination of the gender identity of a person is implemented where the gender of such person is subject to a congenital defect or has not yet been accurately formed and requires medical intervention in order to identify clearly the gender.
2. The re-determination of the gender identity of a person shall comply with regulations of law.
3. Each individual undergone re-determination of gender identity has the right and obligation to apply for change of civil status affairs as prescribed in law on civil status affairs and has the personal rights in conformity with the re-determined gender identity as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 47. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sex reassignment 
The sex reassignment shall comply with regulations of law. Each surged transgender has the right and obligation to apply for change of civil status affairs as prescribed in law on civil status affairs and has the personal rights in conformity with the transformed gender as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 48. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to private life, personal secrets and family secrets 
1. The private life, personal secrets and family secrets of a person are inviolable and protected by law.
2. The collection, preservation, use and publication of information about the private life of an individual must have the consent of that person; the collection, preservation, use and publication of information about the secrets of family must have the consent of all family’s members, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. The safety of mails, telephones, telegrams, other forms of electronic information of an individual shall be ensured and kept confidential.
The opening, control and keeping of mails, telephones, telegrams, other forms of electronic information of an individual may only be conducted in cases provided by law.
4. Contracting parties of a contract may not disclose information about each other's private life, personal secrets or family secrets that they know during the establishment and performance of the contract, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 49. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Personal rights in marriage and families 
1. Each individual has the right to marry or divorce, the right to equality between husband and wife, the right to acknowledge father, mother or child, the right to adopt children and be adopted in marriage relation, parent-children relation and relations between family’s members.
All children, of the same parents, regardless of their parents’ marriage status, have the same rights and obligations to their parents.
2. Each individual exercises his/her personal rights in marriage and families as prescribed in this Code, the Law on marriage and families and relevant laws.

Section 50. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Place of residence of individuals 1. The place of residence of an individual is the place where such person usually lives.
2. In cases where it is impossible to determine an individual's place of residence as provided for in Clause 1 of this Article, his/her place of residence shall be the place where such person is currently living.
3. If a party, in a particular civil relation, changes his/her place of residence in association with his/her exercise of right or fulfillment of obligation, he/she must notify the other of the new place of residence.

Section 51. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Place of residence of minors 
1. The place of residence of a minor is the place of residence of his/her parents; if the parents have separate places of residence, the place of residence of the minor shall be the place of residence of the father or mother with whom the minor usually lives.
2. A minor may have a place of residence separate from the place of residence of his/her parents if so agreed by his/her parents or so provided for by law.

Section 52. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Place of residence of wards 1. The place of residence of a ward is the place of residence of his/her guardian.
2. A ward may have a place of residence separate from the place of residence of his/her guardian if so agreed by the guardian or so provided for by law.

Section 53. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Places of residence of husbands and wives 
1. The place of residence of a husband and wife is the place where the husband and the wife usually live together.
2. A husband and a wife may have separate places of residence if they so agree upon.

Section 54. Original section/article: 44. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Places of residence of military personnel 
1. The place of residence of a military personnel member currently performing his/her military service is the place at which his/her military personnel's unit is stationed.
2. The place of residence of a/an army officer, regular member of military personnel, defense worker or official is the place at which his/her unit is stationed, except in cases where he/she has a place of residence as specified in Clause 1

Section 55. Original section/article: 45. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Place of residence of persons performing itinerant occupations 
The place of residence of a person performing an itinerant occupation on a ship, boat or other means for itinerant work is the place of registration of such ship, boat or means, unless he/she has a place of residence specified in Clause 1

Section 56. Original section/article: 46. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Guardianship 
1. Guardianship means an individual or organization (hereinafter referred collectively to as guardian) is required by law or appointed to take care of and protect legitimate rights and interests of a minor or a legally incapacitated person or a person with limited cognition and behavior control (hereinafter referred to as a ward).
2. When a person with limited cognition and behavior control is capable of expressing his/her will anytime when he/she requests the guardianship, his/her consent is required.
3. The guardianship must be registered at a competent authority as prescribed in law on civil status affairs.
Natural guardians must fulfill their obligations regardless of their registration of guardianship.

Section 57. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Wards 1. Wards include:
a) Minors who have lost their mothers and fathers, or whose parents are unidentifiable;
b) Minors whose parents are both incapacitated persons; parents have limited cognition or behavior control; parents have limited capacity of exercise; parents have their parental rights restricted by a court; and parents do not have the means to care for or educate such minor and the parents request the minor to be a ward;
c) Incapacitated persons;
d) Persons with limited cognition or behavior control.
2. A person may only be a ward of one guardian, except where the guardians are parents in charge of one child or grandparents in charge of one grandchild.

Section 58. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Guardians 
1. Each natural person or juridical person who meets all requirements prescribed in this Code is entitled to be a guardian.
2. If a person with full legal capacity chooses a guardian for him/her, such guardian shall be selected if the person needs the guardianship with the consent of the ward. The selection of guardian must be made in writing and notarized or certified.
3. Each natural or juridical person may be a guardian of multiple persons.

Section 59. Original section/article: 49. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Requirements for natural persons to be guardians Each natural person who meets all of the following requirements may act as a guardian:
1. Having full legal capacity;
2. Having good ethics and necessary means to exercise rights and fulfill obligations of a guardian;
3. Not being a person facing a criminal prosecution or a person who has been convicted but his/her criminal record has been not expunged for a deliberate crime of violation of life, health, honor, dignity or property of another person;
4. Not being a person having parental rights to minor child restricted by a court.

Section 60. Original section/article: 50. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Requirements for juridical persons to be guardians Each juridical person who meets all of the following requirements may act as a guardian:
1. Having civil legal personality in conformity with the guardianship;
2. Having necessary means to exercise rights and fulfill obligations of a guardian.

Section 61. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Supervision of guardianship 
1. The relatives of a ward shall have the responsibility to appoint a representative to supervise the guardianship in among the relatives or appoint another natural or juridical person to act as a guardianship supervisor.
The appointment of guardianship supervisor must have the consent of such person.
If the supervision relates to management of property of the ward, the supervisor must register it at the People’s Committee of commune where the ward resides.
Relatives of a ward means his/her spouse, parents and children; if there is no such person, relatives of the ward means his/her grandparents and biological siblings; if there is also no such person, relatives of the ward means his/her biological uncles and aunts.
2. If there is no relative of a ward or the relatives fails to appoint a guardianship supervisor as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the People’s Committees of commune where the guardian resides shall appoint a natural or juridical person to supervise the guardianship. If there is a dispute over the appointment of guardianship supervisor, it shall be subject to a court's decision.
3. Each supervisor being natural person must have full legal capacity, each supervisor being juridical person must have legal personality in conformity with the supervision; the supervisor must have necessary means to conduct the supervision.
4. Each guardianship supervisor has the following rights and obligations:
a) Monitory and inspect the guardian in the guardianship;
b) Examine and offer opinions in writing in terms of establishment and performance of civil transactions prescribed in

Section 62. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
c) Request a regulatory agency in charge of guardianship to change or terminate the guardianship or supervision of guardianship.

Section 63. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Natural guardians of minors 
A natural guardian of a minor prescribed in Points a and b Clause 1

Section 64. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall be determined as follows:
1. The eldest brother or sister shall be the guardian of the ward; if the eldest brother or sister fails to satisfy all requirements for acting as a guardian, the next eldest brother or sister shall be the guardian, unless otherwise agreed that another biological brother or sister shall be the guardian;
2. If there is no guardian prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the paternal grandfather, grandmother or the maternal grandfather, grandmother shall be the guardian; or those persons shall agree to appoint a person or some persons to be guardian(s);
3. If there is no guardian prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article, a biological uncle or aunt of the ward shall be the guardian.

Section 65. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Natural guardians of incapacitated persons 
If there is no guardian prescribed in Clause 2

Section 66. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the natural guardian of a legally incapacitated person shall be determined as follows:
1. If a wife is a legally incapacitated person, her husband shall be the guardian; if a husband is a legally incapacitated person, her wife shall be the guardian;
2. If both parents are incapacitated persons or either of them is a legally incapacitated person and the other does not fully meet requirements to be a guardian, the eldest child shall be the guardian; if the eldest child does not fully meet the requirements to be a guardian, the next eldest child shall be the guardian;
3. If an adult being a legally incapacitated person has no spouse or child or such person has spouse or children but they do not fully meet the requirements to be a guardian, his/her father and/or mother shall be the guardian.

Section 67. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Appointment of guardians 
1. If a minor or a legally incapacitated person has no guardian as prescribed in

Section 68. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
and 53 of this Code, the People’s Committee of commune where such person resides must appoint a guardian for the ward.
If there is a dispute between guardians prescribed in

Section 69. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code in terms of guardians or appointment of guardians, a court shall appoint the guardian.
The expectation of a minor aged 6 years or older in terms of his/her guardian must be considered.
2. The appointment of a guardian must have the consent of such person.
3. The appointment of a guardian must be made in writing, specifying the reason for appointing the guardian, the specific rights and obligations of the guardian and the status of the ward's property.
4. Apart from the cases prescribed in Clause 2

Section 70. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the guardian of a person with limited cognition and behavior control shall be appointed among the guardians prescribed in

Section 71. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code by a court. If there is no such person, the court shall appoint another natural or juridical person to be a guardian.

Section 72. Original section/article: 55. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of guardians with regard to wards under fifteen years of age 1. Take care of and educate the ward.
2. Represent the ward in civil transactions, except where it is provided for by law that wards under fifteen years of age can enter in and perform civil transactions by themselves.
3. Manage the property of the ward.
4. Protect legitimate rights and interests of the ward.

Section 73. Original section/article: 56. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of guardians with regard to wards from fifteen to eighteen years of age 
1. Represent the ward in civil transactions, except where it is provided for by law that wards from fifteen to eighteen years of age can enter in and perform civil transactions by themselves.
2. Manage the property of the ward, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. Protect legitimate rights and interests of the ward.

Section 74. Original section/article: 57. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of guardians with regard to incapacitated persons or person with limited cognition and behavior control 1. The guardian of a legally incapacitated person shall have the following obligations:
a) Take care of and ensure the treatment of illness of the ward;
b) Represent the ward in civil transactions;
c) Manage the property of the ward;
d) Protect legitimate rights and interests of the ward.
2. The guardian of a person with limited cognition and behavior control shall have obligations specified in the decision of a court according to the obligations prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.

Section 75. Original section/article: 58. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of guardians 1. The guardian of a minor or a legally incapacitated person shall have the following rights:
a) Use the property of the ward in order to take care of and pay for the needs of the ward;
b) Receive payment of all necessary expenditures on management of the property of the ward;
c) Represent the ward in the establishment and performance of civil transactions in order to protect legitimate rights and interests of the ward.
2. The guardian of a person with limited cognition and behavior control shall have rights specified in the decision of a court according to the rights prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.

Section 76. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Management of property of wards 
1. The guardian of a minor or a legally incapacitated person must manage the property of his/her ward as if it were his/her own property.
The sale, exchange, lease, lending, pledge, mortgage, deposit and other transactions involving the property of the ward, which has a high value, must have the consent of the guardianship supervisor.
The guardian must not donate the property of his/her ward to other persons. Unless the transaction is undertaken for the interests of the ward and the guardianship supervisor consents to the transaction, all civil transactions between the guardian and his/her ward in connection with the latter's property shall be void.
2. The guardian of a person with limited cognition and behavior control shall manage the property of the ward specified in the decision of a court according to guardianship scope prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.

Section 77. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Replacement of guardians 1. A guardian may be replaced in any of the following cases:
a) The guardian no longer meets all of the requirements specified in

Section 78. Original section/article: 49. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
or 50 of this Code;
b) The guardian being a natural person dies or is declared by court limited cognition or behavior control, limited legal capacity, incapacitated, missing or the guardian being a juridical person cease to exist;
c) The guardian seriously violates a guardian's obligation;
d) The guardian proposes his/her replacement and another person agrees to assume the guardianship.
2. In case of replacing a natural guardian, the persons defined in

Section 79. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall assume the role of a natural guardian; if there is no natural guardian, the appointment of a guardian shall comply with the provisions of

Section 80. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The procedures for replacing a guardian shall comply with law on civil status affairs.

Section 81. Original section/article: 61. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of guardianship 
1. Upon replacement of a guardian, the person who formally conducted the guardianship must transfer the guardianship to the new replacement within fifteen days as from the date the new guardian is found.
2. The transfer of guardianship must be made in writing, specifying the reason for the transfer and the status of the ward's property at the time of transfer. The agency which appointed the guardian and the guardianship supervisor shall witness the transfer of the guardianship.
3. With regard to replacement of guardian prescribed in Clause 1

Section 82. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the agency which appointed the guardian shall make a record thereon, clearly stating the status of the ward's property and the rights and obligations which have arisen in the course of performing the guardianship for transfer to the new guardian with the witness of the guardianship supervisor.

Section 83. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of guardianship 1. A guardianship shall be terminated in any of the following cases:
a) The ward attains full legal capacity;
b) The ward dies;
c) The ward's father and/or mother have/has fully met the conditions to exercise his/her rights or fulfill his/her obligations;
d) The ward has been adopted.
2. The procedures for termination of guardianship shall comply with law on civil status affairs.

Section 84. Original section/article: 63. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consequences of the termination of guardianship 
1. When a ward attains full legal capacity, the guardian shall settle the property with the ward and transfer all rights and obligations arising from civil transactions concluded by the guardian on behalf of that ward within 15 days from the date of termination of guardianship.
2. If a ward dies, the guardian must settle up the property with the ward's heirs or transfer the property to the estate administrator of the ward, or transfer all rights and obligations arising from the civil transactions on behalf of the ward within three months as from the date on which the guardianship terminates; if the ward's heirs are unidentifiable upon the expiry of such time limit, the guardian shall continue to manage the property of the ward until the property has been settled in accordance with the provisions of law on inheritance and shall notify such to the People's Committee of the commune where the ward resides.
3. With regard to termination of guardianship prescribed in Point c and Point d Clause 1

Section 85. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the guardian shall settle up the property and transfer all rights and obligations arising from the civil transactions on behalf of the ward to the ward’s parent within 15 days from the date of termination of guardianship.
4. The settlement of property and transfer of rights and obligations prescribed in this Article must be made in writing under supervision of the guardianship supervisor.

Section 86. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
NOTICE OF SEARCH FOR PERSONS WHO ARE ABSENT FROM THEIR PLACES OF RESIDENCE, DECLARATION OF MISSING PERSONS AND DECLARATION OF DEATH

Section 87. Original section/article: 64. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Request for notice of search for persons who are absent from their places of residence and the management of their property 
When a person has disappeared for six consecutive months or longer, any person with related rights or interests may request a court to issue a notice of search for the person absent from his/her place of residence under the provisions of civil procedure law and may request the court to apply measures for management of the property of the absent person in accordance with the provisions of

Section 88. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Management of property of person absent from his/her place of residence 
1. At the request of a person with related rights or interests, a court shall hand over the property of a person absent from his/her place of residence to one of the following persons for management:
a) With respect to property of which the management has been authorized to person by the absent person, such person shall continue to manage the property;
b) With respect to joint property, the remaining co-owner(s) shall manage the property;
c) The property being currently managed by the spouse’s absent person shall continue to be managed by such spouse; if that spouse dies or that spouse is legally incapacitated, has limited cognition or behavior control or has limited legal capacity, his/her adult children or parents shall manage the property.
2. If there is no person defined in Clause 1 of this Article, a court shall appoint a person among the relatives of the absent person to manage his/her property; if the absent person does not have any relative, the court shall appoint another person to manage the property.

Section 89. Original section/article: 66. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of persons managing property of person absent from his/her place of residence 1. Keep and preserve the property of the absent persons as if it were his/her own property.
2. Sell immediately any property being crops or other products being in danger of decay;
3. Perform the absent persons' obligations to pay maintenance their dependents and/or pay due debts or financial obligations with such persons' property under the court's decisions.
4. Return the property to the absent persons upon their return and to notify a court thereof; or compensate for any damage caused during the course of management of the property due to his/her fault.

Section 90. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of persons managing property of person absent from his/her place of residence 1. Manage the property of the absent persons.
2. Deduct a portion from the property of the absent person in order to perform the obligations of such person to pay maintenance to his/her dependents, due debts or financial obligations.
3. Receive payment of all necessary expenditures on management of the property of the absent person.

Section 91. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Declaration of person missing 
1. When a person has disappeared for two consecutive years or longer and there is no reliable information on whether such person is still alive or dead even though notification and search measures have been fully applied in accordance with the civil procedure law, a court may, at the request of a person with related rights or interests, declare such person is missing.
The two-year time limit shall commence from the date the last information on such person is obtained; if the date of the last information cannot be determined, this time limit shall commence from the first day of the month succeeding the month when the last information is received; if the date and month of the last information cannot be determined, this time limit shall commence from the first day of the year succeeding the year when the last information is received.
2. In cases where the wife or the husband of a person who has been declared missing files for a divorce, a court shall grant the divorce as prescribed in law on marriage and family.
3. The decision on declaration of a missing person issued by a court must be sent to the People’s Committees of commune where the missing person last resides for record as prescribed in law on civil status affairs.

Section 92. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Management of property of persons declared missing 
The person currently managing the property of a person absent from his/her place of residence as provided for in

Section 93. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall continue to manage the property of such person when he/she is declared missing by a court and such person shall have the rights and obligations specified in

Section 94. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
If a court has granted divorce to the wife or the husband of the person who has been declared missing, the property of the missing person shall be handed over to the adult children or to the parents of the missing person for management. If there is no such person, the property shall be handed over to a relative of the missing person for management; if there is no relative, the court shall appoint another person to manage the property.

Section 95. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Annulment of decision declaring person missing 
1. When a person who has been declared missing returns or when there is reliable information that such person is still alive, a court shall, at the request of such person or a person with related rights or interests, issue a decision on annulment of the decision declaring the person missing.
2. A person who has been declared missing shall, upon his/her return, be permitted to receive his/her property back from the person managing the property after paying the management expenses.
3. If the wife or the husband of a person who has been declared missing has been granted a divorce, the decision granting the divorce shall retain legal effect notwithstanding the return of the person who has been declared missing or the reliable information that such person is still alive.
4. The decision on annulment of a decision declaring a person missing issued by a court must be sent to the People’s Committees of commune where the missing person resides for record as prescribed in law on civil status affairs.

Section 96. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Declaration of person dead 
1. A person with related rights or interests may request a court to issue a decision declaring that a person is dead in any of the following cases:
a) After three years from the effective date of a court's decision declaring a person missing, there is still no reliable information that such person is alive;
b) The person has disappeared during a war and there is still no reliable information that such person is alive for five years from the end of the war;
c) The person met with an accident, catastrophe or a natural disaster and there is still no reliable information that such person is alive for two years from the end of such accident, catastrophe or natural disaster, unless otherwise provided for by law;
d) The person has been missing for five consecutive years or longer and there is no reliable information that such person is still alive; this time limit shall be calculated in accordance with Clause 1

Section 97. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. A court shall, according to the cases specified in Clause 1 of this Article, determine the date of death of a person declared dead.
3. The decision on declaration of a dead person issued by a court must be sent to the People’s Committees of commune where the dead person resides for record as prescribed in law on civil status affairs.

Section 98. Original section/article: 72. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Personal relations and property relations of persons declared dead by courts 
1. When a decision of a court declaring that a person is dead becomes legally effective, all marriage and family relations and other personal relations of such person shall be resolved in the same manner as if the person were dead.
2. The property relations of a person who is declared dead by a Court shall be resolved in the same manners as if such person were dead; the property of such person shall be dealt with in accordance with the law on inheritance.

Section 99. Original section/article: 73. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Annulment of decision declaring person dead 
1. When a person who has been declared dead returns or when there is reliable information that such person is still alive, a court shall, at the request of such person or a person with related rights or interests, issue a decision on annulment of the decision declaring the person dead.
2. The personal relations of the person who has been declared dead shall be restored when a court issues a decision on annulment of the decision which declared that such person was dead, except for the following cases:
a) If the wife or the husband of the person who has been declared dead was permitted by the Court for her or his divorce in accordance with the provisions of Clause 2

Section 100. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the decision granting the divorce shall remain legally effective;
b) If the wife or the husband of the person who has been declared dead has married to another person, such marriage shall remain legally effective.
3. A person who has been declared dead but is still alive shall have the right to claim his/her property from the persons who received that his/her inheritance and/or the value of the remaining property.
If the heir of a person whom a court has declared dead is aware that such person is still alive, but intentionally conceals such information for the purpose of enjoying the inheritance, he/she must return all of the property received, including any benefits and income derived; if any damage has been caused, he/she must also pay compensation therefor.
4. Property relations between spouses shall be dealt with in accordance with this Code and the Law on marriage and families.
5. The decision on annulment of a decision declaring a person dead issued by a court must be sent to the People’s Committees of commune where the dead person resides for record as prescribed in law on civil status affairs.
Chapter IV 
JURIDICAL PERSONS

Section 101. Original section/article: 74. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Juridical persons 
1. An organization shall be recognized as a juridical person if it meets all of the following conditions:
a) It is legally established as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws;
b) It has an organizational structure prescribed in

Section 102. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) It has property independent from other natural and juridical persons and bears liability by recourse to its property;
d) It participates independently in legal relations in its own name.
2. Every natural or juridical person has the right to establish a juridical person, otherwise provided for by law.

Section 103. Original section/article: 75. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Commercial juridical persons 
1. Commercial juridical person means a juridical person whose primary purpose is seeking profits and its profits shall be distributed to its members.
2. Commercial juridical persons include enterprises and other business entities.
3. The establishment, operation and termination of commercial juridical person shall comply with regulations of this Code, Law on enterprises and other relevant laws.

Section 104. Original section/article: 76. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Non-commercial juridical persons 
1. Non-commercial juridical person means a juridical person whose primary purpose is not seeking profits and its possible profits may not distributed to its members.
2. Commercial juridical persons include regulatory agencies, people's armed units, political organizations, socio-political organizations, political-socio-professional organizations, social organizations, socio-professional organizations, social funds, charitable funds, social enterprises and other non-commercial organizations.
3. The establishment, operation and termination of non-commercial juridical persons shall comply with regulations of this Code, laws on organizational structure of the state and other relevant laws.

Section 105. Original section/article: 77. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Charters of juridical persons 1. A juridical person must have a charter if it is required by law.
2. A charter of a juridical person must contain the following primary contents:
a) Name of juridical person;
b) Purpose and scope of its operation;
c) Head office; branches or representative offices (if any);
d) Charter capital (if any);
dd) Legal representative;
e) Organizational structure, the procedures for nomination, election, appointment, discharge from office and dismissal; duties and powers of the positions in the managing body and other bodies;
g) Membership requirements, if the judicial person has members;
h) Rights and obligations of the members, if the judicial person has members;
i) Procedures for ratifying decisions of the judicial person; rules for internal settlement of disputes;
k) Procedures for amending and supplementing the charter;
l) Conditions for consolidation, acquisition, total division, partial division or dissolution the juridical person.

Section 106. Original section/article: 78. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Names of judicial persons 1. Each judicial person’s name must be in Vietnamese.
2. The name of a judicial person must clarify its type of organization and distinguish it from other judicial persons in the same field of activities.
3. Each juridical person must use its own name in civil transactions.
4. The name of a juridical person shall be recognized and protected by law.

Section 107. Original section/article: 79. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Head offices of judicial persons 1. The head-office of a juridical person is the place where its executive body is located.
Any change of the judicial person’s head office must be announced.
2. The contact address of a juridical person shall be the address of its head-office. The juridical person may select another place as its contact address.

Section 108. Original section/article: 80. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nationality of judicial persons 
Each juridical person established in accordance with Vietnamese law shall be a Vietnamese juridical person.

Section 109. Original section/article: 81. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property of judicial persons 
Property of a juridical person includes contributed capital of its owners, founders, members and other kinds of property that the juridical person has established its ownership as prescribed in this Code or relevant laws.

Section 110. Original section/article: 82. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment and registration of juridical persons 
1. A juridical person may be established on the initiative of an individual or another juridical person, or under a decision of a regulatory agency.
2. Registration of juridical person includes registration of establishment, modification to registration and other registration as prescribed by law.
3. The registration of juridical person must be announced.

Section 111. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Organizational structure of juridical persons 
1. Each juridical person must have an executive body. The organization, duties and powers of the executive body of a juridical person shall be stipulated in its charter or establishment decision.
2. Each juridical person may have other bodies as decided itself or as prescribed by law.

Section 112. Original section/article: 84. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Branches and representative offices of juridical persons 1. Each branch and/or representative office is an affiliate other than a juridical person.
2. Each branch shall perform all or part of the functions of the juridical person.
3. Each representative office shall perform its duties as authorized by the in accordance with within the authorized scope and for the juridical person's interests.
4. The establishment or termination of a branch or a representative office of a juridical person must be registered as prescribed by law and announced.
5. The head of each branch or representative office shall perform his/her duties as authorized by the juridical person within the authorized scope and for the authorized duration.
6. A juridical person shall have civil rights and obligations arising from civil transactions established and performed by its representative offices and/or branches.

Section 113. Original section/article: 85. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Representatives of juridical persons 
The representative of a juridical person may be a legal representative or an authorized representative. The representative of a juridical person must comply with regulations on representation in Chapter IX of this Part.

Section 114. Original section/article: 86. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal personality of juridical persons 
1. The legal personality of a juridical person is its capability to have civil rights and civil obligations.
The legal personality of a juridical person shall not be restricted, unless otherwise provided for in this Code or relevant laws.
2. The legal personality of a juridical person arises from it is established or authorized to establish by a competent authority; if a juridical person is required to register of operation, its legal personality shall arise from the time in which its name is included in a register book.
3. Legal personality of a juridical person terminates from the time of termination of such juridical person.

Section 115. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability of juridical persons 
1. Each juridical person must bear civil liability for the civil rights and obligations established and performed in the name of the juridical person by its representative.
The juridical person shall bear the civil liability for obligations assumed by its founder or founder’s representative to establish and/or register the juridical person, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law.
2. Each juridical person must bear civil liability by recourse to its property; shall not bear civil liability for its members with respect to civil obligations established and performed by such members not in the name of the juridical person, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. A member of a juridical person shall not bear civil liability of the juridical person for the civil obligations established and performed by such juridical person, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 116. Original section/article: 88. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consolidation of juridical persons 1. Juridical persons may consolidate into a new juridical person.
2. After consolidation, the former juridical persons shall cease to exist from the time of establishment of the new juridical person; the civil rights and obligations of the former juridical persons shall be transferred to the new juridical person.

Section 117. Original section/article: 89. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Acquisition of juridical persons 
1. A juridical person (hereinafter referred to as acquired juridical person) may be merged into another juridical person (hereinafter referred to as acquiring juridical person).
2. After acquisition, the acquired juridical person shall cease to exist; the civil rights and obligations of the acquired juridical person shall be transferred to the acquiring juridical person.

Section 118. Original section/article: 90. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Total division of juridical persons 1. A juridical person may be totally divided to multiple juridical persons.
2. After total division, the transferor juridical person shall cease to exist; the civil rights and obligations of the transferor juridical person shall be transferred to new juridical persons.

Section 119. Original section/article: 91. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Partial division of juridical persons 1. A juridical person may be partially divided to multiple juridical persons.
2. After partial division, the transferor juridical person and transferee juridical persons shall perform their civil rights and obligations in accordance with their own operation objectives.

Section 120. Original section/article: 92. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conversion of forms of juridical persons 1. The form of a juridical person may be converted into another form.
2. After conversion of form, the converting juridical person shall cease to exist from the time of establishment of the converted juridical person, the civil rights and obligations of the converting juridical person shall be transferred to the converted juridical person.

Section 121. Original section/article: 93. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Dissolution of juridical persons 1. A juridical person shall be dissolved in any of the following cases:
a) In accordance with the provisions of its charter;
b) Pursuant to a decision of a competent authority;
c) Upon expiry of its term of operation as provided in its charter or in the decision of the competent authority;
d) Other cases as prescribed by law.
2. Prior to dissolution, a juridical person must fulfill all of its property obligations.

Section 122. Original section/article: 94. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Settlement of property of dissolved juridical persons 1. The property of a dissolved juridical person shall be settled according to the following order:
a) Dissolution expenses of the juridical person;
b) Unpaid salaries, severance pay, social insurance, health insurance for employees as prescribed by law, other benefits of employees according to collective bargaining agreement and signed employment contracts;
c) Tax debts and other debts.
2. After all debts and dissolution costs are paid, the remaining value shall be received by the juridical person’s owner, capital contributors, except for the case prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article or otherwise prescribed by law.
3. In case a dissolved social fund or charity fund has paid fully dissolution expenses and other debts prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the remaining property shall be transferred to another fund with the same purpose.
If there is no fund with the same purpose that receives the property or the above fund is dissolved because of its violation against to prohibition of law or contrary to social ethics, its property shall vest in the State.

Section 123. Original section/article: 95. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bankruptcy of juridical persons The bankruptcy of each juridical person shall comply with regulations of law on bankruptcy.

Section 124. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of juridical persons 1. A juridical person shall terminate in any of the following cases:
a) Consolidation, acquisition, total division, conversion of legal, or dissolution prescribed in Articles 88, 89, 90, 92 and 93 of this Code;
b) Declaration of bankruptcy in accordance with law on bankruptcy.
2. A legal person shall terminate from the time its name is removed from the juridical person registry or as from the time stated in a decision of competent authority.
3. When a juridical person terminates, its property shall be resolved in accordance with this Code and relevant laws.
Chapter V 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, CENTRAL AND LOCAL REGULATORY AGENCIES IN CIVIL RELATIONS

Section 125. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local regulatory agencies in civil relations 
When the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or a central or local regulatory agency engages in a civil relation, it shall have the equality with other entities and bear civil responsibility as prescribed in

Section 126. Original section/article: 99. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
and 100 of this Code.

Section 127. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Representatives in civil relations 
The representation of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or a central or local regulatory agency engaging in civil relations shall comply with regulations of law in terms of functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of regulatory agencies. The representation by other natural or juridical persons may only permitted in the cases and procedures prescribed by law.

Section 128. Original section/article: 99. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for civil obligations 
1. The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, central and local regulatory agencies shall bear liability for their civil obligations by recourse to the property whose ownership for which they represent and take centralized management, other than the case that the property is transferred to the juridical person prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. The juridical persons established by the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, or a central or local regulatory agency shall not bear liability for civil obligations of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, or such central or local regulatory agency.
3. The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a central or local regulatory agency shall not bear liability for civil obligations of the juridical persons established themselves, including state-owned enterprises, unless the Socialist Republic of Vietnam or such central or local regulatory agency has acted as a guarantee for those juridical persons as prescribed by law.
4. A central or local regulatory agency shall not bear liability for civil obligations of the juridical persons of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, or other central or local regulatory agencies, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 129. Original section/article: 100. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for civil obligations of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a central or local regulatory agency in civil relation in which a foreign state, natural or juridical person is a party 
1. The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, a central or local regulatory agency shall bear liability for its civil obligations arising from the following cases with a foreign state, natural or juridical person is a party:
a) An international agreement to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory has regulations on waiving immunity;
b) An agreement on waiving immunity concluded by the parties in such civil relation;
c) The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the central or local regulatory agency waives the immunity.
2. The liability for civil obligations of a foreign state, natural or juridical person with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Vietnamese central or local regulatory agencies, natural or juridical persons shall apply Clause 1 of this Article.
Chapter VI 
HOUSEHOLDS, CO-OPERATIVE GROUPS AND OTHER NON-JURIDICAL PERSONS IN CIVIL RELATIONS

Section 130. Original section/article: 101. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Entities in civil relations with the participation of households, co-operative groups and other non-juridical persons 
1. In case a household, co-operative group or another non-juridical person engages in a civil relation, the entities establishing or performing civil transactions for such household, co- operative group or the other organization shall be its member or a representative authorized. The authorization must be made in writing, unless otherwise agreed. If there is any change of representative, it is required to keep the other party informed about the change.
If a member of a household, co-operative group or another non-juridical person, without authorization from other members to act as a representative, engages in a civil relation, he/she shall be the entity of such civil relation.
2. The entities of civil relations with the participation of households using land shall be determined as prescribed in the Law on land.

Section 131. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Common property of members of households, co-operative groups and other non-juridical persons 
1. Common property of members of a household and their rights and obligations to such property shall be determined as prescribed in

Section 132. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Common property of members of a co-operative group and their rights and obligations to such property shall be determined as prescribed in

Section 133. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Common property of members of another non-juridical person and their rights and obligations to such property shall be determined as agreed, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 134. Original section/article: 103. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability of members of households, co-operative groups and other non- juridical persons 
1. Civil obligations arising from the engaging in civil relations by households, co-operative groups, other organizations as non-juridical person shall be fulfilled by recourse their common property.
2. If all members have no property or not enough property to fulfill their common obligations, the obligee may request those members to fulfill the obligations as prescribed in

Section 135. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. If the members have no agreement, co-operative contract or not otherwise prescribed by law, they must bear the civil liability as prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article in proportion to each member’s contribution, if it fails to determine particular proportions, each member shall have the same proportion.

Section 136. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consequences of civil transactions established and/or performed by unauthorized persons or by representatives beyond scope of representation 
1. If an unauthorized member, on behalf of other members of a household, co-operative group or another non-juridical person, establish or perform a civil transaction, or a representative establish or perform a civil transaction beyond his/her scope of representation, the legal consequences of such transaction shall apply provisions of Articles 130, 142 and 143 of this Code.
2. If a civil transaction established and/or performed by an authorized member or by a representative beyond his/her scope of representation cause damage to other members of the household, co-operative group or the non-juridical persons or a third party, such person must compensate for the infringed person.
Chapter VII 
PROPERTY

Section 137. Original section/article: 105. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property 1. Property comprises objects, money, valuable papers and property rights.
2. Property includes immovable property and movable property. Immovable property and movable property may be existing property or off-plan property.

Section 138. Original section/article: 106. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Registration of property 
1. Ownership and other rights to immovable property shall be registered in accordance with this Code and law on registration of property.
2. Ownership and other rights to movable property shall not be required to be registered, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. The registration of property must be public.

Section 139. Original section/article: 107. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Immovable property and movable property 1. Immovable property includes:
a) Land;
b) Houses and constructions attached to land;
c) Other property attached to land, houses and constructions;
d) Other property as prescribed by law.
2. Moveable property is property which is not immovable property.

Section 140. Original section/article: 108. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Existing property and off-plan property 
1. Existing property means a property which is formed and to which an entity has established his/her ownership rights and other rights before or at the time of transaction establishment.
2. Off-plan property includes:
a) Non-formed property;
b) Formed property that the entity has established his/her ownership rights after the time of transaction establishment.

Section 141. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Yield and income 1. Yield means natural products brought by property.
2. Income means a profit earned from the development of the property.

Section 142. Original section/article: 110. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Primary objects and auxiliary objects 
1. A primary object is an independent object the utility of which can be exploited according to its functions.
2. An auxiliary object is an object which directly supports the exploitation of the utility of a primary object and which is part of the primary object but which may be separated from it.
3. Upon performance of an obligation to transfer a primary object, any auxiliary objects must also be transferred, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 143. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Divisible objects and indivisible objects 
1. A divisible object is an object which, after being divided, retains its original characteristics and usage.
2. An indivisible object is an object which, after being divided, is not able to retain its original characteristics and usage.
When an indivisible object needs to be divided, it must be valued in money for the purpose of division.

Section 144. Original section/article: 112. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consumable objects and non-consumable objects 
1. A consumable object is an object which, after being having been used once, loses or is not capable of retaining its original characteristics, appearance and usage.
A consumable object may not be the object of a lease contract or of a lending contract.
2. A non-consumable object is an object which, after being having been used many times, substantially retains its original characteristics, appearance and usage.

Section 145. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Fungible objects and distinctive objects 
1. Fungible objects are objects which have the same appearance, characteristics and usage and which can be determined by units of measurement.
Fungible objects of the same quality may be interchangeable.
2. A distinctive object is an object which is distinguishable from other objects by its own characteristics regarding markings, appearance, color, material, nature or position.
An obligation to transfer a distinctive object is only able to fulfill by transferring that particular distinctive object.

Section 146. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Integrated objects 
An integrated object is an object comprised of components or parts which fit together and are connected with each other to make up a complete from whereby one of the parts or components is missing, or if there is a part or component which is not of the right specification or category, it is not able to be used or its utility value is decreased.
An obligation to transfer an integrated object must be fulfilled by transferring all parts or components thereof, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 147. Original section/article: 115. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property rights 
Property rights are rights which are able to be valued in money, including property rights to subjects of intellectual property rights, right to use land and other property rights.
Chapter VIII 
CIVIL TRANSACTIONS

Section 148. Original section/article: 116. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil transactions 
Civil transaction is a contract or a unilateral legal act which gives rise to, changes or terminates civil rights and/or obligations.

Section 149. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conditions for effective civil transactions 1. A civil transaction shall be effective when it satisfies all of the following conditions:
a) Participants in the transaction have legal personality and/or legal capacity in conformity with such transaction;
b) Participants in the transaction act entirely voluntarily;
c) The purpose and contents of the transaction are not contrary to the law and/or social ethics.
2. The forms of civil transactions shall be the conditions for its effectiveness in cases where it is so provided for by law.

Section 150. Original section/article: 118. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Objectives of civil transactions 
The objectives of a civil transaction are legitimate interests which the parties wish to achieve at the time when they enter into such transaction.

Section 151. Original section/article: 119. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Forms of civil transactions 1. A civil transaction shall be expressed verbally, in writing, or through specific acts.
Civil transactions by way of electronic means in form of data messages prescribed in law on electronic transactions shall be deemed to be written civil transactions.
2. In cases where it is provided for by law that a civil transaction must be expressed in writing, notarized, authenticated, registered or permitted, such provisions must be complied with.

Section 152. Original section/article: 120. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conditional civil transactions 
1. In cases where the parties have agreed on the conditions which shall give rise to or terminate a civil transaction, such civil transaction shall arise or be terminated upon the occurrence of such conditions.
2. In cases where the conditions which give rise to or terminate a civil transaction cannot occur due to the direct or indirect action of deliberate impeding of one party, such conditions shall be considered having occurred; if the direct or indirect efforts of one of the parties promotes deliberately promote the occurrence of conditions so as to give rise to or terminate the civil transaction, such conditions shall be deemed not to have occurred.

Section 153. Original section/article: 121. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Interpretation of civil transactions 
1. In cases where a civil transaction may be understood in different ways, such transaction must be interpreted in the following order:
a) In accordance with the real intention of the parties at the time when the transaction was entered into;
b) In a manner consistent with the objective of the transaction;
c) In accordance with the customary practice of the place where the transaction was entered into.
2. The interpretation of civil contracts shall comply with the provisions of

Section 154. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code and the interpretation of the contents of testaments shall comply with the provisions of

Section 155. Original section/article: 122. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalid civil transactions 
Civil transactions which fail to satisfy any one of the conditions specified in

Section 156. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall be invalid.

Section 157. Original section/article: 123. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions due to breach of legal prohibitions or contravention of social ethics 
Civil transactions with objectives and contents which breach legal prohibitions or which contravene social ethics shall be invalid.
Legal prohibitions mean provisions of law which do not permit entities to perform certain acts.
Social ethics are common standards of conduct as between persons in social life, which are recognized and respected by the community.

Section 158. Original section/article: 124. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions due to falsification 
1. If the parties falsely enter into a civil transaction for the purpose of concealing another transaction, the false transaction shall be invalid and the concealed transaction remains valid, unless it is also invalid under the provisions of this Code or relevant laws.
2. If the parties enter into a civil transaction falsely for the purpose of evading responsibilities to a third person, such transaction shall be invalid.

Section 159. Original section/article: 125. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions established and performed by minors or legally incapacitated persons or persons with limited cognition and behavior control or persons with limited legal capacity 
1. When a civil transaction is established or performed by a minor, a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition and behavior control, or a person with limited legal capacity, a court shall, at the request of the representative of that person, declare such transaction invalid, if it is provided for by law that such transaction must be established and performed by or with the consent of the representative of that person, except for the cases prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. A civil transaction of a person prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article shall not be invalid in any of the following cases:
a) The civil transaction of a child less than 6 years of age or a legally incapacitated person established for his/her daily needs;
b) The civil transaction only either arising rights or exempting from obligations for the minor, the legally incapacitated person, the person with limited cognition and behavior control, the person with limited legal capacity and their contracting parties;
c) The civil transaction of which validity is recognized by the person established such transaction that become an adult or restore his/her legal capacity.

Section 160. Original section/article: 126. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions due to misunderstanding 
1. If there is a misunderstanding in a civil transaction that make a party or the parties fails to meet the objectives of the transaction establishment, the mistaken party shall have the right to request a court to declare such transaction invalid, except for the case prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. A civil transaction having misunderstanding shall not be invalid if the parties may meet the objectives of the transaction establishment or the parties may correct the misunderstanding resulting in the achievement of the objectives of the transaction establishment.

Section 161. Original section/article: 127. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions due to deception, threat or compulsion 
Any party entering into a civil transaction as a result of deception, threat or compulsion has the right to request a court to declare such transaction invalid.
Deception in a civil transaction means an intentional act of a party or a third person for the purpose of misleading the other party as to the subject, the nature of the entity or contents of the civil transaction which has caused the other party to enter into such transaction.
Threat or compulsion in a civil transaction means an intentional act of a party or a third person which compels the other party to conduct the civil transaction in order to avoid danger to the life, health, honor, reputation, dignity and/or property or that of its relatives.

Section 162. Original section/article: 128. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions established by person lacking in cognition and behavior control 
A person who has legal capacity but has entered into a civil transaction at the time of he/she is lacking in cognition and behavior control shall have the right to request a court to declare such civil transaction invalid.

Section 163. Original section/article: 129. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil transactions due to non-compliance with form 
A civil transaction violating conditions for validity pertaining to form shall be invalid, except for any of the following cases:
1. If the form of a civil transaction, required to be established in writing, does not comply with regulations of law, but a party or the parties has/have fulfill at least two third of the obligations in the transaction, a court, at his/her/their request(s), shall issue a decision on recognition of the validity of such transaction.
2. If the form of a civil transaction, required to be established in writing, violates against regulations on notarizing or authorization, but a party or the parties has/have fulfill at least two third of the obligations in the transaction, a court, at his/her/their request(s), shall issue a decision on recognition of the validity of such transaction. In this case, the parties need not perform the notarizing or authorization.

Section 164. Original section/article: 130. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Partially invalid civil transactions 
A civil transaction shall be partially invalid when one part of the transaction is invalid but such invalidity does not affect the validity of the remaining parts.

Section 165. Original section/article: 131. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal consequences of invalid civil transactions 
1. An invalid civil transaction shall not give rise to, change or terminate any civil rights and obligations of the parties as from the time the transaction is entered into.
2. When a civil transaction is invalid, the parties shall restore everything to its original state and shall return to each other what they have received.
If the restitution is not able to make in kind, it may paid in money.
3. A bona fide person in receiving yield and/or income is not required to return such yield and/or income.
4. The party at fault which caused damage must compensate therefore.
5. The settlement of consequences of invalid civil transactions regarding personal rights shall be prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 166. Original section/article: 132. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time limit for requesting court to declare civil transactions invalid 
1. The time limit within which a request may be made to a court to declare a civil transaction invalid as specified in Articles 125 thru 129 of this Code shall be two years as from the date on which:
a) The representative of a minor, a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition and behavior control or a person with limited legal capacity knows and should know the ward established and/or performed the transaction himself/herself.
b) The mistaken or cheated person in a transaction knows and should know that such transaction is established due to misunderstanding or cheating;
c) The person that threatened or compelled other persons in a transaction put an end to such acts;
d) The person lacking in cognition and behavior control establishes his/her transaction;
dd) The civil transaction is established in non-compliance with form.
2. After the time limit prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, if there is still no request for declaring civil transaction invalid, such transaction still remains valid.
3. For civil transactions specified in Articles 123 and 124 of this Code, the time limit for requesting a court to declare such civil transactions invalid shall not be restricted.

Section 167. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Protection of the interests of bona fide third parties with regard to invalid civil transactions 
1. In cases where a civil transaction is invalid but the transacted property being a moveable property is not required to be registered and such property has already been transferred to a bona fide third party through another transaction, the transaction with the third party shall remain valid, except for the case specified in

Section 168. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. In cases where a civil transaction is invalid but the transacted property is registered at a competent authority and such property has already been transferred to a bona fide third party through another transaction which is established according to that registration, such transaction shall remain valid.
In cases where the transacted property which is required to be registered has not registered at a competent authority, the transaction with the third party shall be invalid, except for cases the bona fide third party received such property through an auction or a transaction with an another
party being the owner of such property pursuant to a judgment or decision of a competent authority but thereafter such person is not the owner of the property as a result of the judgment or decision being amended or annulled.
3. The owner of a property shall have no right to reclaim the property from the bona fide third party if the transaction with such party remains valid as prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article, but the owner may proceed against the party at fault to refund appropriate expenses and compensate for his/her damage.
Chapter IX 
REPRESENTATION

Section 169. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Representation 
1. Representation means a person (hereinafter referred to as the representative) acting in the name and for the benefit of another person (hereinafter referred to as the principal) enters into and performs a civil transaction within the scope of representation.
2. Each natural or juridical person may enter into and/or perform civil transactions through a representative. A natural person may not allow another person to represent him/her; if the law provides for that they must personally enter into and perform such transaction.
3. The representative, if required by law, must have legal personality and/or legal capacity in accordance with the transactions that he/she enters into and performs.

Section 170. Original section/article: 135. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Basis for establishment of representation rights 
Representation rights shall be established according to a power of attorney between a principal and a representative (hereinafter referred to as authorized representation); according to a decision of a competent authority, a charter of a juridical person or as prescribed by law (hereinafter referred to as legal representation).

Section 171. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal representatives of natural persons 1. The father and/or mother with respect to a minor.
2. The guardian with respect to a ward. The guardian of a person with limited cognition and behavior control is a legal representative if appointed by a court.
3. The person appointed by a court in case where it is not able to determine the representative prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article.
4. The person appointed by a court with respect to a person with limited legal capacity.

Section 172. Original section/article: 137. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal representatives of juridical persons 1. Legal representatives of juridical persons include:
a) The person appointed by the juridical person according to its charter;
b) The person competent to represent as prescribed by law;
c) The person appointed by a court during the proceedings at the court.
2. Each juridical person may have multiple legal representatives and each representative is entitled to represent the juridical person as prescribed in Articles 140 and 141 of this Code.

Section 173. Original section/article: 138. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Authorized representatives 
1. Each natural or juridical person may authorize another natural or juridical person to enter into and perform a civil transaction.
2. Members of a household, co-operative group or a non-juridical person may agree to authorize another natural or juridical person to enter into and perform a civil transaction related to their common property.
3. A person aged from fifteen years to below eighteen years may be an authorized representative, except where the law provides for that the civil transaction must be entered into and performed by a person who has reached eighteen years of age.

Section 174. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal consequences of representative acts 
1. A civil transaction entered into and performed with a third person by a representative in accordance with his/her scope of authorization shall give rise to rights and obligations of the principal.
2. The representative is entitled to enter into and/or perform necessary acts to attain the objectives of the authorization.
3. In case where a representative still enters into or performs a civil transaction although he/she knew or should know the establishment of authorization due to misunderstanding, deception, threat or compulsion, such civil transaction shall not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal, except for the case that the principal knew or should know such misunderstanding, deception, threat or compulsion without any objection.

Section 175. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Term of representation 
1. The term of representation shall be determined according to a power of attorney, a decision of a competent authority, and a charter of a juridical person or as prescribed by law.
2. If it fails to determine the term of representation prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the term of representation shall be determined as follows:
a) If the representation right is determined according to a specific civil transaction, the time limit for representation shall be determined until the time of termination of such civil transaction;
b) If the representation right is not determined according to a specific civil transaction, the term of representation is 1 year, from the time of arising representation right.
3. The authorized representation shall terminate in any of the following cases:
a) Upon an agreement;
b) Upon expiry of the term of authorization;
c) Upon completion of the authorized tasks;
d) The principal or the representative unilaterally revokes the authorization;
dd) The principal or the representative being natural person dies; the principal or the representative being juridical person ceases to exist;
e) The representative does not meet the conditions prescribed in Clause 3

Section 176. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
g) Upon another basis that causes the failure of the representation.
4. The legal representation shall terminate in any of the following cases:
a) The principal being natural person becomes an adult or has his/her legal capacity restored;
b) The principal being person dies;
c) The principal being juridical person ceases to exist;
d) Upon another basis as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 177. Original section/article: 141. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope of representation 
1. Each representative may only enter into and/or perform civil transactions within his/her scope of representation according to any of the following bases:
a) The decision of the competent authority;
b) The charter of the juridical person;
c) Contents of authorization;
d) Other regulations as prescribed by law.
2. If it fails to determine the specific scope authorization prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the legal representative has the right to enter into and perform all civil transactions in the interests of the principal, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. A natural or juridical person may represent multiple natural or juridical persons but he/she/it may not, on behalf of the principal, enter into and perform a civil transaction with him/her/it or with a third party that he/she/it also acts as a representative therefor, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
4. The representative must inform the parties of the scope of his/her representation.

Section 178. Original section/article: 142. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consequences of civil transactions entered into and performed by unauthorized persons 
1. A civil transaction entered into and performed by an unauthorized person representative shall not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal, except for any of the following cases:
a) The principal recognizes the transaction;
b) The principal knows it without any objection within an appropriate time limit;
c) It is the principal's fault that the other party does not know or is not able to know that the person entering into and performing the civil transaction therewith was unauthorized.
2. If a civil transaction entered into and performed by an unauthorized person does not give rise to rights and obligations with respect to the principal, the unauthorized person must fulfill the obligations to the person with which he/she transacted, unless such person knew or should have known that the representative was unauthorized.
3. A person having transacted with an unauthorized person has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of or to terminate the civil transaction entered into and to demand compensation for any damage, except where such person knew or should have known that the representative was unauthorized or the case prescribed in Point a Clause 1 of this Article.
4. If the unauthorized person and the other party in a civil transaction deliberately enter into and perform such transaction and thereby cause damage to the principal, they must jointly compensate for the damage.

Section 179. Original section/article: 143. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consequences of civil transactions entered into and performed by representatives beyond scope of representation 
1. A civil transaction entered into and performed by a representative beyond his or her scope of representation shall not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal with respect to that part of the transaction which exceeded the scope of representation, except for any of the following cases:
a) The principal gives consent;
b) The principal knows it without any objection within an appropriate time limit;
c) It is the principal's fault that the other party does not know or is not able to know that the person entering into and performing the civil transaction therewith was beyond his/her scope of representation.
2. If a civil transaction entered into and performed by a representative beyond his/her scope of representation does not give rise to rights and obligations of the principal with respect to that part of the transaction, the representative must fulfill the obligations owning to the person with which he/she transacted in respect of the part of transaction which is beyond the scope of representation, unless such person knew or should have known that the scope of representation was exceeded.
3. A person having transacted with such representative has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of or to terminate the civil transaction with respect to that part which is beyond the scope of representation or with respect to the entire transaction and to demand compensation for any damage, except where such person knew or should have known that the scope of representation was exceeded or the case prescribed in Point a Clause 1 of this Article.
4. Where a person and a representative enter into and perform a civil transaction deliberately beyond the scope of representation of the representative and thereby cause damage to the principal, they shall be jointly liable to compensate for the damage.
Chapter X 
TIME LIMITS AND LIMITATION PERIODS

Section 180. Original section/article: 144. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time limits 1. Time-limit means a length of time calculated from one point of time to another point of time.
2. A time-limit may be calculated by reference to minutes, hours, days, weeks, months or years, or by reference to the happening of an event.

Section 181. Original section/article: 145. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Methods for calculating time-limits 
1. The method for calculating a time-limit shall be apply in accordance with the provisions of this Code, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
2. A time-limit shall be calculated according to the solar calendar, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 182. Original section/article: 146. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Detailed provisions on time-limits and point of time for calculating time-limits 
1. Where the parties have agreed on a time-limit which is one year, half of one year, one month, half of one month, one week, one day, one hour or one minute, but such length of time is not continuous, the time-limit shall be calculated as follows:
a) One year shall be three hundred and sixty five (365) days;
b) Half of one year shall be six months;
c) One month shall be thirty (30) days;
d) Half of one month shall be fifteen (15) days;
dd) One week shall be seven days;
e) One day shall be twenty four (24) hours;
g) One hour shall be sixty (60) minutes;
h) One minute shall be sixty (60) seconds.
2. Where the parties have agreed on a point of time which is at the beginning of a month, the middle of a month or the end of a month, such point of time shall be determined as follows:
a) The beginning of a month shall be the first day of that month;
b) The middle of a month shall be the fifteenth day of that month;
c) The end of a month shall be the last day of that month.
3. Where the parties have agreed on a point of time which is at the beginning of the year, the middle of a year or the end of a year, such point of time shall be determined as follows:
a) The beginning of a year shall be the first day of January;
b) The middle of a year shall be the last day of June;
c) The end of a year shall be the last day of December.

Section 183. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Commencement of time-limits 
1. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to minutes or hours, it shall commence from a defined moment of time.
2. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to days, weeks, months or years, the first day of the time-limit shall not be taken into account and the time-limit shall commence from the day following the defined date.
3. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to the happening of an event, the date on which the event happens shall not be taken into account and the time-limit shall commence from the day following the date on which the event happened.

Section 184. Original section/article: 148. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
End of time-limits 
1. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to days, the time-limit shall end at the last moment of the last day of the time limit.
2. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to weeks, the time-limit shall end at the last moment of the corresponding day of the last week of the time limit.
3. Where a time limit is stated by reference to months, the time-limit shall end at the last moment of the corresponding day of the last month of the time-limit. If the month in which the time-limit ends does not have a corresponding day, the time-limit shall end on the last day of such month.
4. Where a time-limit is stated by reference to years, the time-limit shall end at the last moment of the corresponding day and month of the last year of the time-limit.
5. Where the last day of a time-limit falls on a weekend or a public holiday, the time-limit shall end at the last moment of the next working day following such day.
6. The last moment of the last day of a time-limit shall be precisely twelve o'clock midnight on that day.

Section 185. Original section/article: 149. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitation periods 
1. Limitation period means a time-limit provided by law where, upon its expiry, a legal consequence arises as prescribed by law.
The limitation periods shall apply as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.
2. A court only applies provisions in terms of limitation periods at the request of a party or the parties provided that such request is filed before the first trial court of first instance gives a judgment and/or a decision on settlement.
The person benefiting from the application of the limitation period may refuse to apply such limitation period, unless such refusal is aimed at evading his/her obligations.

Section 186. Original section/article: 150. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Types of limitation periods 
1. A limitation period for enjoying civil rights is the time limit where, upon its expiry, an entity enjoys civil rights.
2. A limitation period for a release from civil obligations is the time limit where, upon its expiry, a person with civil obligations is released from the fulfillment of those civil obligations.
3. A limitation period for initiating legal action is the time-limit within which an entity has the right to initiate legal action to request a court to resolve a civil case to protect the infringed legal rights or interests of the entity. When such time-limit expires, the right to initiate such legal action shall be lost.
4. A limitation period for requesting resolution of a civil case is the time-limit within which an entity has the right to request a court to resolve a civil case in order to protect the legal rights and interests of natural persons, juridical persons, public interest and/or the interest of the State. When such time-limit expires, the right to request shall be lost.

Section 187. Original section/article: 151. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Method for calculating limitation periods 
A limitation period shall be calculated from the first moment of time of the first day and shall end at the last moment of time of the last day of the period.

Section 188. Original section/article: 152. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effectiveness of limitation periods for enjoyment of civil rights and release from civil obligations 
Where the law provides for that a subject may enjoy civil rights or be released from civil obligations by reference to a limitation period, the enjoyment of civil rights or the release from civil obligations shall take effect only upon expiry of the limitation period.

Section 189. Original section/article: 153. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Continuity of limitation periods for enjoyment of civil rights and release from civil obligations 
1. The limitation period for enjoyment of civil rights or release from civil obligations shall continue uninterrupted from its beginning to its expiry. If there is an event causing an interruption, the limitation period shall recommence from the moment when the event causing the interruption ends.
2. The limitation period for enjoyment of civil rights or release from civil obligations shall be suspended upon occurrence of any of the following events:
a) A competent authority makes a resolution with respect to the civil rights and obligations which are the subject of the limitation period;
b) Civil rights or obligations which are the subject of a limitation period are disputed by a person with related rights or obligations and they are settled by an effective judgment or decision issued by a court.
3. The limitation period shall continue uninterrupted where the enjoyment of civil rights or the release from civil obligations or the right to initiate legal action is lawfully transferred to another person.

Section 190. Original section/article: 154. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Commencement of limitation periods for initiating legal action for civil cases and limitation periods for requesting resolution of civil cases 
1. The commencement of the limitation period for initiating legal action for a civil case shall be calculated from the date on which the eligible person knows or should know that his/her legal rights or interests are infringed, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. The commencement of the limitation period for requesting resolution of a civil case shall be calculated from the date when the right to request arises, unless otherwise provided by law.

Section 191. Original section/article: 155. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Non-applicability of limitation periods 
A limitation period for initiating legal action for a civil case shall not apply in any of the following cases:
1. Request for the protection of personal rights not associated with property;
2. Request for the protection of ownership rights, unless otherwise provided by this Code or relevant laws.
3. Dispute over land use right as prescribed in the Law on land;
4. Other cases as provided by law.

Section 192. Original section/article: 156. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time periods excluded from limitation periods for initiating legal action for civil cases and from limitation periods for requesting resolution of civil cases 
The time period during which one of the following events occurs shall be excluded from limitation periods for initiating legal action for civil cases and from limitation periods for requesting resolution of civil cases:
1. An event of force majeure or other objective hindrance which renders the person with the right to initiate legal action for a civil case or make the request not able to do so within the limitation period.
An event of force majeure is an event which occurs in an objective manner which is not able to be foreseen and which is not able to be remedied by all possible necessary and admissible measures being taken.
An objective hindrance is a hindrance which in an objective context results in a person with civil rights or obligations not knowing that his or her lawful rights and interests have been infringed or not being able to exercise his or her rights or fulfill his or her civil obligations;
2. The person with the right to initiate legal action for a civil case or to make the request is a minor or a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition and behavior control or a person with limited legal capacity, and does not yet have a representative.
3. The representative of a minor or a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition and behavior control or a person with limited legal capacity has not yet been replaced in any of the following cases:
a) The representative being natural person dies or the representative being juridical person ceases to exist;
b) The representative, for good reasons, cannot continue his/her representation.

Section 193. Original section/article: 157. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Re-commencement of limitation period for initiating legal action for civil cases 
1. The limitation period for initiating legal action for a civil case shall re-commence in any of the following cases:
a) The obligor has acknowledged part or all of its obligations to the plaintiff;
b) The obligor has acknowledged or fulfilled part of its obligations to the plaintiff;
c) The parties have become reconciled.
2. The limitation period for initiating legal action for a civil case shall re-commence from the date following the date on which the event provided in clause 1 of this Article occurs.
PART TWO 
OWNERSHIP RIGHTS AND OTHER PROPERTY-RELATED RIGHTS 
Chapter XI 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 194. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rules for establishing and exercising ownership rights and other property- related rights

Section 195. Original section/article: 158. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ownership rights 
Ownership rights comprise the rights of an owner to possess, use and dispose of the property of the owner in accordance with law.

Section 196. Original section/article: 159. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Other property-related rights 
1. Other property-related rights mean rights of entities directly hold or control the property belonging to ownership rights of another entity.
2. Other property-related rights include:
a) Right to adjacent immovable property;
b) Usufruct right;
c) Surface rights.

Section 197. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rules for establishing and exercising ownership rights and other property- related rights 
1. Ownership rights and other property-related rights shall be established and exercised if they are prescribed in Code and relevant laws.
Other property-related rights shall remain valid although the ownership right have been transferred, otherwise provided by this Code or relevant laws.
2. Each owner is entitled to perform all acts on his willpower to the property but it is not contrary to the provisions of the law, damage or adversely affects national interests, ethnicity, public interests, rights and legitimate interests of other people.
3. Each holder of other property-related rights is entitled to perform all acts within the scope prescribed in this Code and relevant laws but it is not contrary to the provisions of the law, damage or adversely affects national interests, ethnicity, public interests, rights and legitimate interests of the owner or other people.

Section 198. Original section/article: 161. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time of establishing ownership rights and other property-related rights 
1. The time of establishing ownership rights and other property-related rights shall be determined as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws; if there is no relevant regulations of law, the agreement of the parties shall prevail; if there is no either relevant regulations of law or agreement of the parties, the time of establishing ownership rights and other property-related rights shall be the time when the property is transferred.
The time when the property is transferred is the time when the obligee or his/her legal representative possesses the property.
2. In case where the property which has been not transferred arise yield or income, such yield or income shall belong to the transferor, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 199. Original section/article: 162. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bearing risks of property 
1. Each owner shall bear all risks of the property under his/her ownership, unless otherwise agreed or unless otherwise prescribed by this Code or relevant laws.
2. Each holder of other property-related rights shall bear risks of the property within his/her right scope, unless otherwise agreed with the owner of the property or unless otherwise prescribed by this Code or relevant laws.

Section 200. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
PROTECTION OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS AND OTHER PROPERTY- RELATED RIGHTS

Section 201. Original section/article: 163. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Protection of ownership rights and other property-related rights 
1. No one may be illegally restricted in or deprived of his/her ownership rights or other property- related rights to his/her property.
2. In case of extreme necessity for reasons of national defense, security or national interests, the State shall affect a compulsory purchase or requisition with compensation of the property of organizations or individuals in accordance with the market prices.

Section 202. Original section/article: 164. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Measures for protection of ownership rights and other property-related rights 
1. Each owner or holder of other property-related rights is entitled to self-protect and prevent anyone from infringing his/her rights by measures in accordance with regulations of law.
2. Each owner or holder of other property-related rights shall have the right to request a court or another competent authority to compel the person infringing upon their rights to return the property and terminate the acts of illegally obstructing the exercise of their ownership rights or other property-related rights, and to request compensation for any damage.

Section 203. Original section/article: 165. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Possession with a legal basis 1. Possession with a legal basis is the possession of a property in any of the following cases:
a) The owner possesses the property;
b) A person is authorized by the owner to manage the property;
c) A person to whom the right to possession has been transferred through a civil transaction in accordance with the provisions of law;
d) A person who discovers and keeps derelict property, property with unidentified owners, property which has been let drop on the ground, left over out of inadvertence, buried or sunken in accordance with this Code and/or relevant laws.
dd) A person who discovers and keeps stray domestic animals, poultry or raised aquatic animals in accordance with this Code and/or relevant laws;
e) Other cases as prescribed by law.
2. A possession of property which does not comply with the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article is a possession without a legal basis.

Section 204. Original section/article: 166. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The right to reclaim property 
1. Owners and/or holders of other property-related rights shall have the right to request the persons possessing, using or receiving benefits from the property without a legal basis to return such property.
2. The owner of a property has no right to reclaim such property that is in the possession of a holder of other property-related rights.

Section 205. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The right to reclaim movable property not subject to ownership right registration from bona fide possessors 
Owners may reclaim movable property not subject to ownership right registration from bona fide possessors in cases where such bona fide possessors have acquired such property through unindemifiable contracts with persons who have no right to dispose of the property; in case of indemifiable contracts, the owners may reclaim the movable property if such movable property has been stolen, lost or other cases of possession against the owners' will.

Section 206. Original section/article: 168. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The right to reclaim movable property subject to ownership right registration or immovable property from bona fide possessors 
Owners may reclaim their movable property subject to ownership right registration and immovable property, except for cases prescribed in Clause 2

Section 207. Original section/article: 169. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The right to request the prevention of acts of illegally obstructing the exercise of ownership rights and other property-related rights 
When exercising their ownership rights or other property-related rights, the owners or holders shall have the right to request persons committing acts of illegally obstructing the exercise of their lawful ownership rights or possession rights to terminate such acts or request a court or another competent authority to compel such persons to terminate their violations.

Section 208. Original section/article: 170. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The right to request compensation for damage 
Owners or holders of other property-related rights are entitled to request persons infringing upon their ownership rights or other property-related rights to compensate for any damage.

Section 209. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
RESTRICTIONS ON PROTECTION OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS AND OTHER PROPERTY-RELATED RIGHTS

Section 210. Original section/article: 171. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of owners and holders of other property-related rights in emergency circumstances 
1. An emergency circumstance is a circumstance where in order to avert a danger actually and directly threatening the interests of the State or of a collective, or the legitimate rights or interests of their own or of other persons, a person has no alternative but to take an act which would cause lesser damage than the damage to be prevented.
2. In an emergency circumstance, the owner and holder of other property-related rights to a property must not hinder another person from using his/her own property or hinder another person from causing damage to such property in order to prevent or abate the greater danger or damage that threatens to happen.
3. The causing of damage in an emergency circumstance is not the act of infringing upon ownership rights or other property-related rights. The owner or the holder of other property- related rights shall be compensated for damage in accordance with the provisions of

Section 211. Original section/article: 172. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations to protection of the environment 
When exercising ownership rights and/or other property-related rights, the owner or the holder must comply with the provisions of law on environmental protection; if he/she causes environmental pollution, the owner shall have to terminate the acts which cause the pollution, to take measures to remedy the consequences and to compensate for damage.

Section 212. Original section/article: 173. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations to respect and ensure social order and safety 
When exercising ownership rights and/or other property-related rights, the owner or the holder must respect and ensure social order and safety and must not abuse his/her ownership rights to cause social disorder or unsafety, causing damage to the State interests, public interests or legitimate rights and interests of other persons.

Section 213. Original section/article: 174. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to respect building regulations 
When constructing a project, the owners and holders of other property-related rights must comply with the law on construction, ensure safety. It may not build beyond the height and distance specified by the law on construction and infringes the legitimate rights and interests of owners of adjoining and surrounding immovable properties.

Section 214. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Boundaries between immovable properties 
1. The boundaries between adjoining immoveable properties shall be determined in accordance with the agreement of the owners or in accordance with a decision of the competent authority.
The boundaries may also be determined in accordance with customary practice or according to boundaries which have existed for thirty (30) or more years without dispute.
The land user may not encroach upon the boundary or change the boundary markers, including boundaries being canals, irrigation ditches, trenches, gutters or boundaries of rice fields. Each entity must respect and maintain the common boundaries.
2. A person having land use rights may use the airspace and the sub-surface according to the vertical dimensions of the boundaries around the land as prescribed by law and may not interfere with the use by other persons of the adjoining land.
A land user may only plant trees and performs other activities within the area covered by its land use rights and according to the defined boundaries. If the roots and branches of trees extend beyond the boundaries, such person must clip and prune the parts of the trees beyond the boundaries, except as otherwise agreed.

Section 215. Original section/article: 176. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Boundary markers separating immovable property 
1. An owner of adjoining immoveable property may only erect boundary stakes and fences and build separating walls on the area covered by its land use rights.
2. Adjoining land users may agree to the erection of boundary stakes and fences, the building of separating walls and the planting of trees on the boundary for use as boundary markers between the immoveable properties, and the boundary markers shall be under the multiple ownership of such persons.
Where a boundary marker is erected on the boundary by only one party with the consent of the owner of the adjoining immoveable property, such boundary marker shall be multiple ownership property and the construction expenses shall be borne by the party having erected the marker, unless otherwise agreed. If the owner of the adjoining immoveable property does not give consent and has legitimate reason, the owner having erected the boundary stake or fence or built the separating wall must remove it.
3. With respect to boundary markers which are common house walls, the owner of the adjoining immoveable property may not cut out a window or air ventilating hole or drill the wall in order to install building structures, except with the consent of the owner of the adjoining property.
Where houses are separately built, but with adjoining walls, an owner may only drill and install building structures up to the space between the adjoining walls.
With respect to trees which are common boundary markers, the parties have equal obligations to protect the trees, and the fruits from the trees shall be distributed equally, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 216. Original section/article: 177. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Safety guarantee with regard to trees or constructions posing risks of causing damage 
1. Where there is a danger that a tree or a construction will collapse onto an adjoining immoveable property, the owner must cut down the tree or repair or demolish the construction at the request of the owners of adjoining immovable property or a competent authority. If such person does not cut down the tree or demolish the construction, the owner of an adjoining immoveable property may request a competent authority to procure that the tree be cut down or the structure be demolished. The expenses for cutting down the tree or demolishing the construction shall be borne by the owner of the tree or the structure.
2. When digging a well or a pond or constructing underground structures, the owner of the project must do so at the distance away from the boundaries provided by the law on construction.
When constructing a hygiene construction work, a storehouse of hazardous materials and other construction works likely to cause environmental pollution, the owner of that property must build it a distance far from the markers and in reasonable location, ensure hygiene and safety and do not affect the owners of other immovable properties.
3. If damage is caused to the owners of adjoining or neighboring properties prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, compensation must be made.

Section 217. Original section/article: 178. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Installing doors and windows opening onto adjacent immovable property 
1. A house owner may only install entry and exit doors and windows opening onto adjacent houses or opposite houses and common walkways in accordance with the law on construction.
2. The underside of awnings above entry and exit doors or the underside of awnings of windows opening onto common walkways must be at least two point five (2.5) meters above the ground.
Chapter XII 
POSSESSION

Section 218. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Concept of possession 
1. Possession means that an entity holds and controls a property directly or indirectly as holder of rights to such property.
2. Possession includes possession of owners and possession of non-owners.
The possession of non-owners may not be the basis for establishment of ownership, except for the cases prescribed in Articles 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233 and 236 of this Code.

Section 219. Original section/article: 180. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Possession in good faith 
Possession in good faith means the possession that the possessor has bases to believe that he/she has the right to the property under his/her possession.

Section 220. Original section/article: 181. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Possession not in good faith 
Possession not in good faith means that the possession that the possessor knew or should have known that he/she has no right to the property under his/her possession.

Section 221. Original section/article: 182. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Continuous possession 
1. Continuous possession of property is possession of property which occurs over a period of time without dispute relating to such property or with dispute but no effective judgment or decision on settlement of such dispute is issued, including the case when the property is delivered to another person for possession.
2. The non-continuous possession shall not be treated as the basis for presuming status and rights of possessors prescribed in

Section 222. Original section/article: 183. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Overt possession 
1. Possession of property shall be deemed to be overt possession when it occurs in a transparent manner, without concealment; when property currently being possessed is used in accordance with its functions and usage and is preserved and retained by the possessor as if it were his or her own property.
2. The overt possession shall not be treated as the basis for presuming status and rights of possessors prescribed in

Section 223. Original section/article: 184. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Presuming status and rights of possessors 
1. Each possessor shall be presumed in good faith. If a person believes that such possessor is not in good faith, he/she must prove it.
2. If there is a dispute over the rights to a property, the possessor of such property shall be presumed to have those rights. The disputing person must prove that the possessor have no right.
3. A person possessing in good faith, continuously and overtly shall be eligible for limitation periods for enjoying the rights and enjoy the yield and income derived from the property as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 224. Original section/article: 185. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Protection of possession 
When the possession is violated by another person, the possessor is entitled to, personally or through a court or a competent authority, compels the violator to terminate his/her violation, make restitution, return the property and compensate for any damage.
Chapter XIII 
OWNERSHIP RIGHTS

Section 225. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of ownership rights 
Sub-

Section 226. Original section/article: 186. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to possess of owners 
Where an owner possesses its own property, such owner may do all things to keep and manage the property in accordance with his or her wishes provided that it is not contrary to law or social morals to do so.

Section 227. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to possess of persons managing property under authorization of owner 
1. When an owner authorizes another person to manage his or her property, the authorized person shall exercise the right to possess such property within the scope, in the manner and for the duration determined by the owner.
2. A person authorized to manage property is not able to become the owner of the property delivered as prescribed in

Section 228. Original section/article: 188. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to possess of persons to which property is delivered through civil transactions 
1. Where an owner delivers property to another person through a civil transaction which does not include the transfer of ownership rights, the person to whom the property is delivered must undertake the possession of such property in a manner consistent with the purpose and content of the transaction.
2. The person to which the property is delivered has the right to use such property and is entitled to transfer the right to possess and use the property to another person if the owner so agrees.
3. The person to whom the property is delivered is not able to become the owner of that property as prescribed in

Section 229. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to use 
Right to use means the right to exploit the usage of, and to enjoy the yield and income derived from, property.
The right to use may be transferred to another person upon an agreement or as prescribed by law.

Section 230. Original section/article: 190. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to use of owners 
The owner has the right to use property in conformity with his/her wishes provided that this will not cause damage to or adversely affect the interests of the State or the public or the legal rights and interests of other persons.

Section 231. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to use of non-owners 
A non-owner shall have the right to use a property as agreed with the owner or as prescribed by law.
Sub-

Section 232. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right of disposal 
Right of disposal means the right to transfer ownership rights, renounce ownership rights, right to use, or destruct the property.

Section 233. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conditions for disposal Disposal of property must be performed by a person with legal capacity in accordance with law.
Where the law provides formalities and procedures for disposal of property, such formalities and procedures must be complied with.

Section 234. Original section/article: 194. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right of disposal of owners 
Owners shall have the right to sell, exchange, give, loan, bequeath, renounce or ownership rights, right to use, destruct or implement other forms of disposal in conformity with the law on property.

Section 235. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right of disposal of non-owners 
A non-owner of property shall only have the right to dispose of the property pursuant to authorization from the owner or in accordance with provisions of the law.

Section 236. Original section/article: 196. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Restrictions on right of disposal 1. The right of disposal shall only be restricted in cases where the law so provides.
2. Where a property for sale is an historic or cultural relic as prescribed in law on cultural heritage, the State shall have the right of first refusal to purchase.
Where a natural or juridical person has the right of first refusal to purchase certain property in accordance with law, upon the sale of such property, the owner must grant such right of first refusal to purchase to such person.

Section 237. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
FORMS OF OWNERSHIP 
Sub-

Section 238. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
THE PEOPLE’S OWNERSHIP

Section 239. Original section/article: 197. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property under the people’s ownership 
Land, water resources, mineral resources, resources in the waters, airspace and other natural resources and the assets invested and/or managed by the State belong to the entire people with the representation and centralized management of the State.

Section 240. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exercise of right of owner with respect to the people-owned property 
1. The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a representative that exercises the rights of the owner with respect to the people-owned property.
2. The Government shall manage centrally and ensure the appropriate, efficient and economic use of the people-owned property.

Section 241. Original section/article: 199. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Possession, use and disposal of the people-owned property 
The possession, use and disposal of the people-owned property shall be performed within the scope and in accordance with the procedures provided by law.

Section 242. Original section/article: 200. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exercise of the people ownership rights with respect to property invested in enterprises 
1. Where the people-owned property is invested in an enterprise, the State shall exercise the rights of the owner with respect to such property in accordance with the law on enterprises, management and use of state capital investing in business at enterprises and relevant laws.
2. Enterprises have the right to manage and use capital, land, natural resources and other property invested by the State in accordance with the relevant laws.

Section 243. Original section/article: 201. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exercise of the people ownership rights with respect to property allocated to regulatory agencies and units of armed forces 
1. Where property in the category of the people-owned property is allocated to a regulatory agency or unit of the armed forces, the State shall exercise the right to inspect the management and use of such property.
2. The regulatory agency or unit of the armed forces shall manage and use the property allocated by the State for the correct purpose in accordance with law.

Section 244. Original section/article: 202. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exercise of the people ownership rights with respect to property allocated to political organizations, socio-political organizations, and socio-political professional organizations, social organizations and socio-professional organizations 
1. Where property in the category of the people-owned property is allocated to a political organization, socio-political organization or socio-political professional organization, social organization or socio-professional organization, the State shall exercise the right to inspect the management and use of such property.
2. The political organization, socio-political organization or socio-political professional organization, social organization or socio-professional organization has the right to manage and use the property allocated to it by the State for the correct purpose, within the scope and in accordance with the methods and procedures provided by law, and consistent with the functions and duties of such organization as provided in its charter.

Section 245. Original section/article: 203. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of natural and juridical persons with respect to use of property in category of the people-owned property 
Natural and juridical persons may use land and extract aquatic resources, natural resources and other properties in the category of the people-owned property for the correct purpose and effectively and must fulfill all of their obligations to the State in accordance with law.

Section 246. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property in category of the people-owned property not having been allocated to natural and juridical persons for management 
With respect to property in the category of the people-owned property which has not been allocated to a natural and juridical person for management, the Government shall organize protection, investigation and survey, and formulation of zoning in order to make such property available for use.
Sub-

Section 247. Original section/article: 205. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Private ownership and property under private ownership 1. Private ownership means the ownership by a natural person or a juridical person.
2. The quantity and value of a property under lawful private ownership shall not be restricted.

Section 248. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Possession, use and disposal of property under private ownership 
1. An owner has the right to possess, use and dispose of property under his or her ownership for the purpose of satisfying the needs of daily life, consumption or business activities and other purposes in accordance with law.
2. The possession, use and disposal of property under private ownership must not cause damage to or adversely affect the interests of the State or the public or the legal rights and interests of other persons.
Sub-

Section 249. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Multiple ownership and types of multiple ownership 1. Multiple ownership means ownership of property by more than one owner.
2. Multiple ownership comprises ownership in common and joint ownership.

Section 250. Original section/article: 208. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of multiple ownership rights 
Multiple ownership rights shall be created as agreed by the owners or in accordance with provisions of the law or in accordance with customary practice.

Section 251. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ownership in common 
1. Ownership in common is multiple ownership whereby each owner's share of the ownership rights with respect to the multiple ownership property is specified.
2. Each of the owners in common has rights and obligations with respect to the multiple ownership property corresponding to its share of the ownership rights, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 252. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Joint ownership 
1. Joint ownership means multiple ownership whereby each owner's share of the ownership rights with respect to the multiple ownership property is not specified.
Joint ownership includes divisible joint ownership and indivisible joint ownership.
2. Joint owners have equal rights and obligations with respect to the multiple ownership property.

Section 253. Original section/article: 211. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Multiple ownership between communities 
1. Multiple ownership between a community is the ownership by a family line, hamlet, village, tribal village, mountainous hamlet, ethnic hamlet, religious community or other community of property which is formed in accordance with customary practice, which is jointly contributed to and raised by the members of the community or which was given to the whole community, and property which is obtained from other lawful sources for the purpose of satisfying the common lawful interests of the entire community.
2. Members of a community shall jointly manage, use and dispose of multiple ownership property in the interests of the community as agreed or in accordance with customary practice, but not inconsistent with the law or social morals.
3. Multiple ownership property by a community is indivisible joint property.

Section 254. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Multiple ownership between family members 
1. Property of family members living together includes property that they contributed or made together and other properties whose ownership rights are established in accordance with this Code and relevant laws.
2. The possession, use and disposal of multiple ownership property by family members shall be conducted as mutually agreed. With respect to disposal of an immovable property, a movable property required registration, or a property being the primary income of the family, the agreement between all family members being adults with full legal capacity is required, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
If there is no agreement, the regulations on ownership in common prescribed in this Code and relevant laws shall apply, except for the case prescribed in

Section 255. Original section/article: 213. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Multiple ownership between husbands and wives 1. Multiple ownership between a husband and wife is divisible joint ownership.
2. A husband and wife jointly create and develop their marital property through their efforts and have equal rights to possess, use and dispose of such property.
3. A husband and wife shall discuss, agree on or authorize each other in relation to the possession, use and disposal of the marital property.
4. The marital property may be divided as agreed or pursuant to a decision of a court.
5. If a husband and wife select the regulations on property under agreement as prescribed in law on marriage and families, the marital property shall apply those regulations.

Section 256. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Multiple ownership in apartment buildings 
1. The areas, equipment and furnishings which are for common use in an apartment building prescribed in the Law on Housing are under multiple ownership of all owners of the apartments in the apartment building and are indivisible, unless otherwise provided by law or unless all of the owners reach some other agreement.
2. The owners of the apartments in an apartment building have equal rights and obligations with respect to the management and use of common areas and equipment prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law.
3. Where an apartment building is destroyed, the rights of the owners of the apartment building shall be exercised in accordance with law.

Section 257. Original section/article: 215. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mixed multiple ownership 
1. Mixed multiple ownership means ownership of property in respect of which owners from different economic sectors contribute capital for the purpose of conducting production and business for profit-making purposes.
2. Property which is formed from sources being capital contribution by owners, lawful profits derived from production and business activities or other lawful sources in accordance with law is mixed multiple ownership property.
3. The possession, use and disposal of property under mixed multiple ownership must comply with the provisions of

Section 258. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code and other relevant laws relating to capital contribution; to the organization and operation of production and business activities; to the administration and management of property; and to the liability for property and distribution of profits.

Section 259. Original section/article: 216. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Management of multiple ownership property 
The owners of multiple ownership property shall manage jointly such property in accordance with the principle of unanimity, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 260. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Use of multiple ownership property 
1. Each owner in common has the right to exploit, and to enjoy the yield and income derived from, the multiple ownership property in proportion to its share of the ownership rights, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
2. Joint owners have equal rights to exploit and to enjoy the yield and income derived from, the multiple ownership property, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 261. Original section/article: 218. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Disposal of multiple ownership property 1. Each owner in common has the right to dispose of its share of the ownership rights.
2. Disposal of joint property shall be implemented as agreed by the owners of the property or as provided by law.
3. Where an owner of multiple ownership property sells its share of the ownership rights, the other owners of the property have the right of first refusal to purchase such share.
Such owner may sell such share to other persons if no other owner purchases within three months in the case of immoveable property, or within one month in the case of moveable property, from the date on which the other owners received notice of the sale and the conditions of the sale. The notice must be made writing and conditions for sale applying to other owners in common shall be similar to those applying to non-owners in common.
In the case where there is a sale of a share of the multiple ownership rights in breach of this regulation on priority purchase right, within the time-limit of three months from the date of discovery of the breach, any one of the multiple owners has the right to request a court to transfer to it the rights and obligations of the purchaser; and the party at fault which caused damage shall be liable to compensate for damage.
4. Where one of the owners of immovable property renounces its share of the ownership rights or where such person dies without leaving an heir, its share of the ownership rights shall belong to the State, except in the case of multiple ownership between communities where the share of ownership rights shall belong to the remaining members.
5. Where one of the owners of movable property renounces its share of the ownership rights or where such person dies without leaving an heir, its share of the ownership rights shall belong to the remaining members.
6. Where all owners renounce their ownership rights with respect to multiple ownership property, the ownership rights shall be established as prescribed in

Section 262. Original section/article: 219. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Division of multiple ownership property 
1. Where multiple ownership property is divisible, each owner has the right to request the property to be divided. If the property must be maintained within a certain period of time as agreed by all owners or as prescribed by law, each owner only has the right to request the property to be divided upon expiry of that period. Where the property is not able to be divided in kind, it shall be valued in terms of money for the purposes of division, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a person requests one of the owners of multiple ownership property to fulfill a payment obligation and such owner does not have private property or sufficient private property to make the payment, the requesting person has the right to request that the multiple ownership property be divided in order to receive monetary payment and such person shall be entitled to participate in the division of the property, unless otherwise provided by law.
If the shares of ownership rights are not able to be divided in kind or if such a division is opposed by the remaining owners, the requesting person has the right to request the owner with the obligation to sell to sell its share of ownership rights in order to fulfill the payment obligation.

Section 263. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of multiple ownership Multiple ownership shall terminate in any of the following circumstances:
1. The multiple ownership property has been divided;
2. One of the owners of the multiple ownership property is entitled to enjoy the property in its entirety;
3. The multiple ownership property no longer exists;
4. Other cases as provided by law.

Section 264. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CREATION AND TERMINATION OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS 
Sub-

Section 265. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CREATION OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS

Section 266. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Basis for establishing ownership rights Ownership rights are created with respect to property in any of the following cases:
1. Through labour, lawful production and business activities, or creation of subjects of intellectual property rights;
2. Transfer of ownership rights as agreed or pursuant to a decision of a competent authority;
3. Receipt of yield and/or income;
4. Formation of new objects through merging, mixing or processing;
5. Inheritance of property;
6. Acquisition in accordance with law on objects of which owner is unidentified, buried or sunken objects; lost or mislaid objects, stray poultry or livestock or aquaculture stock.
7. Possession and gain from property prescribed in

Section 267. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
8. Other cases as provided by law.

Section 268. Original section/article: 222. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to property earned from labour and lawful business and production activities or creation of subjects of intellectual property rights 
Workers and persons conducting lawful business and production activities have ownership rights with respect to property earned from labour and the lawful business and production activities from the time when such property is earned.
Person conducting creation activities has ownership rights to the property gained from those activities as prescribed in the Law on intellectual property.

Section 269. Original section/article: 223. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights under agreements 
A person to which property has been transferred through a contract of sale and purchase or by a gift, exchange or loan or another contract of transfer of ownership rights has the right to own such property as provided by law.

Section 270. Original section/article: 224. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to yield and income 
An owner or a user of property has ownership rights with respect to the yield and income derived from such property as agreed or in accordance with law from the time when such yield and income are derived.

Section 271. Original section/article: 225. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights in case of merger 
1. Where property of more than one owner is merged to form an indivisible object and it is not possible to determine whether the property which is merged is a primary object or an auxiliary object, the newly formed object shall be the multiple ownership property of such owners. If the property which is merged consists of a primary object and an auxiliary object, the newly formed object shall belong to the owner of the primary object from the time when the new object is formed. The owner of the new property must pay the value of the auxiliary object to its owner, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a person merges the moveable property of another person with his/her own moveable property, even though he/she knew or should have known that such property was not his/her own and he/she did not have the consent of the owner of the property which was merged, the owner of the property which is merged shall have one of the following rights:
a) Request the person having merged the property to deliver the new property to it and to pay the value of the property;
b) Request the person having merged the property to pay the value of the merged property and to compensate for any damage if the owner of the property which is merged does not wish to take the new property.
c) Other rights as provided by law.
3. Where a person merges the moveable property of another person with his/her own immoveable property, even though he/she knew or should have known that such property was not his/her own and he/she did not have the consent of the owner of the property which was merged, the owner of the property which is merged shall have one of the following rights:
a) Request the person having merged the property to pay the value of the merged property and to compensate for any damage;
b) Other rights as provided by law.
4. Where a person merges the immoveable property of another person with his/her own moveable property, the owner of the immovable property has the right to request such person to demolish the illegally merged property and compensate for any damage, or retain the property and pay the value of the merged property to such person, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 272. Original section/article: 226. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights in case of mixing 
1. Where the property of more than one owner is mixed to form a new indivisible object, the new object shall be the multiple ownership property of such owners from the moment of mixing.
2. Where a person has mixed the property of another person with its own property, even though it knew or should have known that such property is not its own and it does not have the consent of the owner of the property which has been mixed, the owner of the property which has been mixed may:
a) Request the person having mixed the property to deliver the new property to it and pay such person the value of the property of such person;
b) If the owner of the property which has been mixed does not wish to take the new property, request the person having mixed the property to pay the value of the property of the owner and to compensate for any damage.

Section 273. Original section/article: 227. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights in case of processing 
1. An owner of raw materials which are processed to form a new object is also the owner of the newly formed object.
2. A person using raw materials under the ownership of another person for processing who acts in good faith shall become the owner of the new property, but must pay the value of the raw materials to the owner and compensate it for any damage.
3. Where a person processes raw materials not in good faith, the owner of the raw materials has the right to request that the new object be delivered to it. Where the raw materials are owned by more than one person, such persons shall become the owners of the newly formed object in proportion to the value of the raw materials owned by each person. The owners of the raw materials processed not in good faith may request the person carrying out the processing to compensate for any damage.

Section 274. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ownership rights are established with respect to abandoned objects and objects the owner of which is not able to be identified 
1. An abandoned object is an object in respect of which the owner has renounced its ownership rights.
A person finding an abandoned object which is moveable property shall have the right to own such property, unless otherwise prescribed by law. If the found object is immoveable property, it shall belong to the State.
2. A person finding an object the owner of which is not able to be identified must inform or deliver the object to the people's committee or police station of the nearest commune in order that a public announcement may be made notifying the owner to reclaim the object.
The delivery of the object must be recorded, specifying the surnames, given names and addresses of the finder and the receiver and the condition, quantity and volume of the property delivered.
The people's committee or police station of commune which received the object must notify the finder of the results of their inquiries in order to determine the owner.
Where the object, the owner of which is not able to be identified, is moveable property, if the owner of the object is still not able to be identified after one year from the date of the public announcement, such property shall be under the ownership of the finder in accordance with law.
Where the object is immoveable property, if the owner is still not able to be identified after five years from the date of the public announcement, such property shall belong to the State. The finder shall be entitled to enjoy a monetary reward in accordance with law.

Section 275. Original section/article: 229. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to buried or sunken objects which are found 
1. A person finding an object which is buried or sunken must notify and return to the owner; if the owner is not able to be identified, he/she must inform or deliver the object to the people's committee or police station of the nearest commune or a competent authority in accordance with regulations of law.
2. Ownership rights with respect to a buried or sunken object which is found, but which has no owner or the owner of which is not able to be identified, shall be determined, after deducting search and maintenance expenses, as follows:
a) A found object which is an historic or cultural relic shall belong to the State as prescribed in Law on cultural heritage and the finder shall be entitled to enjoy a monetary reward in accordance with law.
b) A found object which is not an historic or cultural relic as prescribed in Law on cultural heritage, and which has a value equivalent up to ten-month base salary provided for by the State, shall belong to the finder; if the value of the found object is more than the equivalent of ten- month base salary provided for by the State, the finder shall be entitled to the value of ten-month base salary plus fifty (50) per cent of the remaining value of the object in excess of the ten-month base salary provided for by the State, with the remaining value belonging to the State.

Section 276. Original section/article: 230. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to objects which other persons have lost or mislaid 
1. A person finding an object which another person has lost or mislaid and being aware of the address of the person having lost or mislaid the object must inform or return the object to such person. If the finder is not aware of the address of the person having lost or mislaid the object, it must inform or deliver the object to the people's committee or police station of the nearest commune in order that a public announcement may be made notifying the owner to reclaim the object.
The people's committee or police station of commune which received the object must notify the finder of the results of their inquiries in order to determine the owner.
2. If, after one year from the date of the public announcement of the object having being found, the owner of the object is still not able to be identified or the owner does not claim the object, the ownership rights with respect to such property shall be determined as follows:
a) If the value of lost or mislaid object is up to ten-month base salary provided for by the State, it shall belong to the finder as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws; if the value of the found object is more than the equivalent of ten-month base salary provided for by the State, the finder shall be entitled to the value of ten-month base salary, deducted from preservation expenses, and plus fifty (50) per cent of the remaining value of the object in excess of the ten-month base salary provided for by the State, with the remaining value belonging to the State.
b) A lost or mislaid object which is an historic or cultural relic as prescribed in the Law on cultural heritage shall belong to the State. The finder shall be entitled to enjoy a monetary reward in accordance with law.

Section 277. Original section/article: 231. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to stray domestic livestock 
1. A person capturing a stray domestic livestock must take care of it and notify the people's committee of the commune in which such person resides in order that a public announcement may be made notifying the owner to reclaim the stray domestic livestock. After 6 months or after 1 year, with regard to domestic livestock allowed to roam according to customary practice, from the date of the public announcement, the ownership rights with respect to domestic livestock and any offspring born thereof shall belong to the capturer.
2. If the owner reclaims the stray domestic livestock, he/she must pay care remuneration and other expenses for the capturer. During the period of feeding and taking care of the stray domestic livestock, the capturer shall be entitled to half of or 50% of value any offspring born. Such person must compensate for any damage if it intentionally causes the death of the stray domestic livestock.

Section 278. Original section/article: 232. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to stray domestic poultry 
1. Where the domestic poultry of a person is lost and captured by another person, the person having captured the stray domestic poultry must make a public announcement notifying the owner to reclaim such poultry. If no one reclaims the stray domestic poultry after one month from the date of the public announcement, it shall be under the ownership of the person having captured it.
2. An owner reclaiming the stray poultry must remunerate the person having captured it for feeding and taking care of the stray domestic poultry and any other expenses incurred. During the period of feeding and taking care of the stray domestic poultry, the person having captured it shall enjoy the benefits from the stray domestic poultry. Such person must compensate for any damage if it intentionally causes the death of the stray domestic poultry.

Section 279. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights with respect to aquaculture stock 
Where the aquaculture stock of a person moves naturally into the field, pond or lake of another person, the stock shall be under the ownership of the person having such field, pond or lake. Where the aquaculture stock has special marks which make it possible to determine that it is not under the ownership of the person having such field, pond or lake, such person must make a public announcement notifying the owner to reclaim the stock. If no one reclaims the stock after one month from the date of the public announcement, it shall be under the ownership of the person having such field, pond or lake.

Section 280. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights due to inheritance 
An heir shall have ownership rights with respect to inherited property in accordance with Part Four of this Code.

Section 281. Original section/article: 235. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights in accordance with judgment or decision of court or in accordance with decision of another competent authority 
Ownership rights may also be created on the basis of an effective judgment or decision of a court or an effective decision of another competent authority.

Section 282. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of ownership rights resulting from limitation periods with respect to possession or deriving benefits from property unlawfully 
A person unlawfully but in good faith possessing, or deriving benefits from, property continuously and in an overt manner for ten (10) years with respect to moveable property, and for thirty (30) years with respect to immoveable property, shall become the owner of such property from the moment of commencement of possession, unless otherwise prescribed by this Code and relevant laws.
Sub-

Section 283. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
TERMINATION OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS

Section 284. Original section/article: 237. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for terminating ownership rights 
Ownership rights terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The owners transfers his or her ownership rights to another person;
2. The owner renounces his or her ownership rights;
3. The property is consumed or destroyed;
4. The property is realized in order to fulfill the obligations of the owner;
5. The property is requisitioned;
6. The property is confiscated;
7. Other persons have established ownership rights with respect to property in accordance with this Code;
8. Other bases as provided by law.

Section 285. Original section/article: 238. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of ownership rights by owner 
Where an owner transfers its ownership rights to another person through a contract for sale and purchase, by exchange, gift or loan, or through inheritance, the ownership rights of the owner with respect to the property shall terminate from the time when the ownership rights of the transferee arise.

Section 286. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Renunciation of ownership rights 
An owner may terminate ownership rights with respect to its property by publicly declaring, or by performing certain acts evidencing, its renunciation of the right to possess, use and dispose of such property.
With respect to property the renunciation of which may harm social order or security or cause environmental pollution, the renunciation of ownership rights must comply with the law.

Section 287. Original section/article: 240. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property in respect of which other persons have established ownership rights 
When a person has, in accordance with

Section 288. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
through 233 of this Code, lawfully established ownership rights with respect to an object the owner of which is not able to be identified; a buried or sunken objects; a lost or mislaid object or stray domestic livestock, poultry or aquaculture stock, the ownership rights of the person formerly having the property shall terminate.
When the ownership rights of a possessor or a person benefiting from property have been created in accordance with

Section 289. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the ownership rights of the person who formally had the property shall terminate.

Section 290. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Realization of property in order to fulfill obligations of owner 
1. Ownership rights with respect to property shall terminate when such property is realized in order to fulfill the obligations of the owner pursuant to a decision of a court or another competent authority, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. Property which the law provides is not able to be seized may not be realized in order to fulfill the obligations of the owner.
3. The ownership rights with respect to property realized in order to fulfill the obligations of the owner shall terminate at the time when the ownership rights of the recipient of such property arise.
4. The realization of land use rights shall be carried out in accordance with the law on land.

Section 291. Original section/article: 242. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Destroyed property When property is destroyed, the ownership rights with respect to such property shall terminate.

Section 292. Original section/article: 243. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property which is compulsorily acquired 
Where property is compulsorily acquired as prescribed by law, the ownership rights of the owner shall terminate from the time when the decision of the competent authority becomes legally effective.

Section 293. Original section/article: 244. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Confiscated property 
Where property of an owner is confiscated and paid into the State Budget due to the owner committing a crime or an administrative offence, the ownership rights of the owner with respect to such property shall terminate from the time when the judgment or decision of the court or the decision of the competent authority becomes legally effective.
Chapter XIV 
OTHER PROPERTY-RELATED RIGHTS

Section 294. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to adjoining immovable property

Section 295. Original section/article: 245. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to adjoining immovable property 
Right to adjoining immovable property means a right to be exercised on an immovable property (hereinafter referred to as obliged immovable property) to serve the exploitation of another immovable property under ownership of another person (hereinafter referred to as entitled immovable property).

Section 296. Original section/article: 246. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for establishment of right to adjoining immovable property 
The right to adjoining immovable property shall be established according to natural terrain, as prescribed by law, according to agreement or will.

Section 297. Original section/article: 247. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effect of right to adjoining immovable property 
The right to adjoining immovable property shall take effect to every natural and juridical person and it is transferred concurrently with the transferred immovable property, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 298. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rules for exercising right to adjoining immovable property 
The right to adjoining immovable property shall be exercised as agreed by the parties. If the parties fail to agree, the rules below must be followed:
1. Ensure the appropriate exploitation of the entitled immovable property in conformity with the use purposes of both entitled and obliged immovable property;
2. Do not abuse the right to the obliged immovable property;
3. Do not obstruct or hassle the exercising of right to the entitled immovable property.

Section 299. Original section/article: 249. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Change of exercising right to adjoining immovable property 
In case the change of use or exploitation of the obliged immovable property leading the change of exercising of right to the entitled immovable property, the owner of the former immovable property must notify the owner of the latter immovable property within an appropriate period. The owner of the obliged immovable property must enable the owner of the entitled immovable property to adapt to such change.

Section 300. Original section/article: 250. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of owners relating to draining of rainwater 
An owner of house or construction works must install water drain pipes in order that the rainwater from its roof does not run onto any adjoining immoveable properties.

Section 301. Original section/article: 251. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of owners relating to draining of waste water 
An owner of house or construction work must install underground drains or water drainage channels to discharge waste water to the prescribed location in order that the waste water does not run and spill onto any adjoining immoveable properties or onto public streets or public places.

Section 302. Original section/article: 252. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights relating to supply and drainage of water through adjoining immoveable property 
Where, due to the natural location of immoveable property, the supply and drainage of water must pass through another immoveable property, the owner of the immoveable property through which the water flows must provide an appropriate channel for the supply and drainage of water and may not hinder or prevent the flow of water.
The person using the water supply and drainage channel must minimize to the lowest possible extent any damage to the owner of the immoveable property through which the water flows when installing the water channel. If damage is caused, compensation must be made. Where water flows naturally from a higher position to a lower position and causes damage to the owner of the property through which the water flows, the person using the water supply and drainage channel shall not be liable to compensate for any damage.

Section 303. Original section/article: 253. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights relating to irrigation and water drainage in cultivation 
A person having the right to use land for cultivation has the right to request neighboring land users to provide a reasonable and convenient water channel for irrigation and drainage. A person having been so requested has the obligation to grant such request. If the person using such water channel causes damage to neighboring land users, compensation must be made.

Section 304. Original section/article: 254. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right of passage 
1. An owner of immoveable property which is surrounded by immoveable properties of other owners such that there is no exit has the right to request one of the owners of adjoining immoveable properties to provide it with a passage to a public road on their land.
The passage shall be opened in the adjoining immoveable property which is deemed to be the most convenient and reasonable, taking into consideration the special characteristics of the location, the interests of the immoveable property which does not have an exit, and what will cause the least damage to the immoveable property through which the passage is created.
The owner of the immovable property eligible for the passage must compensate for the obliged immovable property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. The location and the length, width and height of the passage shall be agreed by the owners in order to ensure convenient passage and minimize inconvenience to the parties. If there are any disputes regarding the passage, the parties may request the authorized State body to resolve.
3. Where immoveable property is divided into more than one portion for different owners or users, upon division, necessary passages must be provided, without compensation, to persons in the interior as provided in Clause 2 of this Article.

Section 305. Original section/article: 255. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to install electricity transmission cables and communication cables through other immoveable properties 
An owner of immoveable property has the right to install electricity transmission cables and communication cables in a reasonable manner through the immoveable property of other owners, but must ensure the safety and convenience of such owners. If damage is caused, compensation must be made.

Section 306. Original section/article: 256. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of easements over adjoining immoveable property 
An easement over adjoining immoveable property shall terminate in the following circumstances:
1. The entitled immovable property and the obliged immovable property belong to ownership rights of a person;
2. The use and exploitation of the immovable property do not arise the needs of enjoying rights;
3. Upon agreement of contracting parties;
4. Other bases as provided by law.

Section 307. Original section/article: 257. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Usufruct right 
Usufruct right means the right to use a property, under ownership of another entity, and enjoy its yield or income in a specific period of time.

Section 308. Original section/article: 258. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for establishment of usufruct right The usufruct right shall be established as prescribed by law, according to agreement or will.

Section 309. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effect of usufruct right 
The usufruct right shall be established from the time of transfer of the property, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.
The established usufruct right shall take effect to every natural and juridical person, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 310. Original section/article: 260. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time limit of usufruct right 
1. The time limit of usufruct right shall be agreed by the parties or prescribed by law provided that its maximum length is the full life of the first usufructary being natural person or the period of time for which the first usufructary being juridical person exists as long as it does not exceed 30 years.
2. The usufructary has the right to lease the usufruct right within a specific period of time prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.

Section 311. Original section/article: 261. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of usufructary 
1. On his/her own or permit another person exploit, use and enjoy yield and/or income from the object of the usufruct right.
2. Request the owner of the property perform obligation to repair the property as prescribed in Clause 4

Section 312. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code; if the usufructary performs the obligation on behalf of the owner of property is entitled to request the owner to refund the expenses.
3. Lease the usufruct right to the property.

Section 313. Original section/article: 262. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of usufructary 1. Receive property under current conditions and register it if required by law.
2. Exploit the property for appropriate purposes.
3. Preserve property as if it is his/her own property.
4. Maintain and repair property periodically to ensure the normal use; restore the status of the property and remedy the bad consequences of property due to his/her poor performance of obligations in line with technical requirements or by custom of property preservation.
5. Return the property to the owner of the expiration of usufruct time limit.

Section 314. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of property owner 1. Dispose property without any change of the usufruct right which has been established.
2. Request a court to deprive usufruct right from a usufructary who seriously breaches his/her obligations.
3. Do not obstruct or hassle or otherwise violate the legitimate rights and interests of the usufructary.
4. Perform obligation to repair property to ensure that there is no significant decline leading the property cannot be used or lost all its utility and value.

Section 315. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to enjoy yield and income 
1. Each usufructary has ownership right to the yield and income derived from the property being the object of the usufruct right during its effective period of time.
2. If the usufruct right cease to exist before the harvest time of yields and income, the usufructary shall, upon the harvest time, be entitled to enjoy the value of yield and income received corresponding the time that person is entitled to such usufruct right.

Section 316. Original section/article: 265. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of usufruct right The usufruct right shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The time limit of usufruct right has expired;
2. As agreed by the parties;
3. The usufructary becomes the owner of the property being the subject of the usufruct right;
4. The usufructary waives or fails to exercise the usufruct right during a time limit prescribed by law;
5. The property being subject of the usufruct right no longer exists;
6. Pursuant to a decision of a court;
7. Pursuant to other provisions of law.

Section 317. Original section/article: 266. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Returning property upon termination of usufruct right 
The property being subject of usufruct right must be returned to the owner upon the termination of usufruct right, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 318. Original section/article: 267. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Surface rights 
Surface rights mean an entity's rights to the ground, water surface, space thereon and earth bowel of the land whose land use rights belong to another entity.

Section 319. Original section/article: 268. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for establishment of surface rights Surface rights shall be established by law, according to agreement or will.

Section 320. Original section/article: 269. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effect of surface rights 
Surface rights shall take effect from the point of time when the holder of land use rights transfer ground, water surface, space thereon and earth bowel of the land to the holder of surface rights, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.
Surface rights shall take effect to every natural and juridical person, unless otherwise prescribed by relevant laws.

Section 321. Original section/article: 270. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time limit of surface rights 
1. The time limit of surface rights shall be established by law, according to agreement or will provided that it does not exceed the time limit of land use rights.
2. If the agreement or will does not mention the time limit of surface rights, each party is entitled to terminate any time provided that it provides a written notification to the other party within 6 months.

Section 322. Original section/article: 271. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of surface rights 
1. Each holder of surface rights has the right to exploit and use ground, water surface, space thereon, the water and the earth bowel of the land whose land use rights belong to another entity for construction, planting or cultivation provided that it is not contrary to the provisions of this Code, the law on land, construction, planning, resources, minerals and other provisions of relevant laws.
2. The holder of surface rights has the ownership rights to every property derived as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article.
3. If part of the whole of surface rights is transferred, the transferee shall inherit the surface rights according to conditions and within the scope in proportion to the part or the whole transferred surface rights.

Section 323. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of surface rights The surface rights shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The time limit of surface rights has expired;
2. The holder of surface rights and the holder of land use rights shall be the same;
3. The holder of surface rights waives his/her rights;
4. Surface rights of land use rights are appropriated as prescribed in law on land;
5. As agreed by the parties or as prescribed by law.

Section 324. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Realization of property upon termination of surface rights 
1. Upon the termination of surface rights, its holder must return ground, water surface, space thereon and earth bowel of the land to the holder of land use rights, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.
2. The holder of surface rights must realize the property under ownership upon its termination, unless otherwise agreed.
If the holder of surface rights must realize the property under ownership upon its termination, the ownership of such property shall be transferred to the holder of land use rights from the termination time, unless the latter holder refuse such property.
If the holder of land use rights refuses the property while the property is required to be realized, the holder of surface rights must pay the property realization expenses.
PART THREE 
OBLIGATIONS AND CONTRACTS 
Chapter XV. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 325. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for giving rise to and subject matter of obligations

Section 326. Original section/article: 274. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations 
Obligations means acts whereby one or more entities (hereinafter referred to as obligors) must transfer objects, transfer rights, pay money or provide valuable papers, perform other acts or refrain from performing certain acts in the interests of one or more other subjects (hereinafter referred to as obligees).

Section 327. Original section/article: 275. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for giving rise to obligations Obligations arise from the following bases:
1. Contracts;
2. Unilateral legal acts;
3. Unauthorized performance of acts;
4. Unlawful possession or use of or receipt of benefits from property;
5. Causing damage through unlawful acts;
6. Other bases as provided by law.

Section 328. Original section/article: 276. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of obligations 
1. The subject matter of an obligation may be property or acts which must be performed or acts which must not be performed.
2. The subject matter of an obligation must be defined precisely.

Section 329. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations

Section 330. Original section/article: 277. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Places for performing obligations 1. The place for performing an obligation shall be agreed by the parties.
2. Where the parties do not have an agreement, the place for performance of the obligation shall be:
a) The location of the immoveable property, if the subject matter of the obligation is immoveable property;
b) The place of residence or head office of the obligee, if the subject matter of the obligation is not immoveable property.
Where the obligee changes its place of residence or head office, it must notify the obligor of the change and must bear any increase in expenses resulting from the change in residence or head office, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 331. Original section/article: 278. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time-limits for performing obligations 
1. The time-limit for performing an obligation shall be as agreed by the parties or as provided by law.
2. The obligor must perform the obligation strictly in accordance with the relevant time-limit, unless otherwise prescribed by this Code or relevant laws.
If the obligor performs the obligation prior to the time-limit and the obligee accepts such performance, the obligation shall be deemed to have been fulfilled on time.
3. Where the parties do not have an agreement and the time-limit for the performance of a civil obligation is not identifiable prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, a party may fulfill the obligation or demand the fulfillment of the obligation as the case may be at any time, but must give reasonable prior notice to the other party.

Section 332. Original section/article: 279. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations to deliver objects 
1. A person having the obligation to deliver an object must take care of and preserve the object until the time of delivery.
2. Where an object to be delivered is a distinctive object, the obligor must deliver that particular object in the same condition as agreed. If the object is a fungible object, it must be delivered in accordance with the quality and quantity agreed. If there is no agreement as to the quality, the object delivered must be of average quality. If the object is an integrated object, the whole integrated object must be delivered.
3. An obligor must bear all expenses related to the delivery of an object, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 333. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations to pay money 
1. An obligation to pay money shall be performed in full, strictly on time, at the place and by the method as agreed. 
2. The obligation to pay money shall include the payment of interest on principal, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 334. Original section/article: 281. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations to perform acts or not to perform acts 
1. Obligation to perform an act means an obligation whereby the obligor must perform that particular act. 
2. Obligation not to perform an act means an obligation whereby the obligor must not perform that particular act.

Section 335. Original section/article: 282. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations in stages An obligation may be performed in stages if so agreed or so provided by law or pursuant to a decision of a competent authority. 
The late performance of one stage of an obligation shall be deemed to be late performance of the obligation.

Section 336. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations through third parties With the consent of the obligee, an obligor may authorize a third person to perform an obligation on behalf of the obligor provided that the obligor shall be liable to the obligee if the third person fails to perform or performs incorrectly the obligation.

Section 337. Original section/article: 284. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conditional performance of obligations 1. Where the parties have agreed on conditions for the performance of a civil obligation or where the law provides certain conditions for the performance of an obligation, the obligor must perform the obligation when such conditions are satisfied. 
2. If the conditions do not occur or occur resulting from the influence of a party, Clause 2

Section 338. Original section/article: 120. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall apply.

Section 339. Original section/article: 285. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations having optional subject matters 
1. Obligation having an optional subject matter means an obligation the subject matter of which is one of several different items of property or acts from which the obligor may select at its discretion, except where it is agreed or provided by law that the right to select is reserved to the obligee. 
2. The obligor must notify the obligee of the property or act selected in order to perform the obligation. In the case where the obligee has fixed a time-limit for performance of the obligation with a selected subject matter, the obligor must fulfill the obligation on time. 
3. Where there remains only one property or one act to select, the obligor must deliver that particular property or perform that particular act.

Section 340. Original section/article: 286. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of substitutable civil obligations 
Substitutable obligation means an obligation whereby if the obligor fails to perform the original obligation, it may perform a different obligation as agreed by the obligee as a substitute for the original obligation.

Section 341. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of severable obligations Where more than one person jointly performs an obligation and each person has a clearly defined share of the obligation which is severable from that of the other person, each person must perform only its own share of the obligation.

Section 342. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of joint obligations 1. Joint obligation means an obligation which must be performed by more than one person and which the obligee may request any one of the obligors to perform in its entirety. 
2. When one person has performed an obligation in its entirety, such person may require the other joint obligors to make payment for their respective shares of the joint obligation to such person. 
3. Where an obligee designates one person from amongst the joint obligors to perform an entire obligation and later releases that person, the other obligors shall also be released from performing the obligation. 
4. Where an obligee releases one of the joint obligors from its share of the joint obligation, the other obligors must, nevertheless, perform jointly their respective shares of the obligation.

Section 343. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of obligations for joint obligees 
1. Civil obligation for joint obligees means an obligation whereby each joint obligee may require the obligor to perform the obligation in its entirety. 
2. An obligor may perform its obligation with respect to any one of the joint obligees. 
3. Where one of the joint obligees releases the obligor from performing the share of the obligation owed to such joint obligee, the obligor must, nevertheless, perform the remaining shares of the obligation owed to the other joint obligees.

Section 344. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of divisible obligations 
1. Divisible obligation means an obligation the subject matter of which is a divisible object or an act which is able to be divided into portions for the purpose of performance. 
2. An obligor may perform the obligation in stages, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 345. Original section/article: 291. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of indivisible obligations 
1. Indivisible obligation means an obligation the subject matter of which is an indivisible object or an act which must be performed in its entirety at the one time. 
2. Where several persons must perform an indivisible obligation, they must perform the obligation in its entirety at the same time.

Section 346. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
SECURITY FOR PERFORMANCE OF OBLIGATIONS Sub-

Section 347. Original section/article: 292. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Types of security for performance of obligations 
Types of security for the performance of obligations comprise the following: 
1. Pledge of property; 
2. Mortgage of property; 
3. Deposit; 
4. Security collateral; 
5. Escrow deposit; 
6. Title retention; 
7. Guarantee; 
8. Fidelity guarantees; 
9. Lien on property.

Section 348. Original section/article: 293. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope of security for performance of obligations 1. An obligation may be fully or partly secured, as agreed or as provided by law. If there is no agreement on or if the law does not provide, the scope of the security, the obligation, including the obligation to pay interest and to compensate for any damage, shall be deemed to be fully secured. 
2. Secured obligations may comprise current obligations, future obligations and conditional obligations. 
3. With respect to a future obligation which is going to arise within a guaranteed time limit, it shall be the secured obligation, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 349. Original section/article: 294. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Security for performance of future obligations 
1. With respect to a future obligation, the parties may agree on the scope of the secured obligation and the deadline by which the secured obligation must be performed, unless otherwise prescribed by law. 
2. When the future obligation arises, the parties are not required to re-establish the security for such obligation.

Section 350. Original section/article: 295. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Collateral 1. Collateral must be under the ownership rights of the securing party, except for the cases of lien on property or title retention. 
2. Collateral may be described generally but must be identified. 
3. Collateral may be existing property or off-plan property. 
4. The value of collateral may be greater, equal or smaller than the value of the secured obligation.

Section 351. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Single item of property used as security for performance of several obligations 1. A single item of property may be used as security for performance of several obligations if, at the time of establishment of the security transaction, the value of such property is greater than the total aggregate value of the secured obligations, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law. 
2. Where a single item of property is used as security for performance of several obligations, the securing party must notify the later secured party that the security property is being used as security for performance of other obligations. The provision of security on each occasion must be made in writing. 
3. Where the security property must be realized in order to satisfy one obligation which has fallen due, the other obligations which have not yet fallen due shall also be deemed due and all secured parties shall be entitled to take part in the realization. The secured party which provided notice of realization of the property shall be responsible for realizing the property, unless otherwise agreed by the secured parties. 
If the parties wish to continue to fulfill the obligations which have not yet fallen due, they may agree that the securing party will use other property as security for performance of the obligation which has fallen due.

Section 352. Original section/article: 297. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effectiveness against third parties 
1. Security shall take effect against a third party from the time of registration of such security or the secured party keeps or possess the collateral. 
2. When the security takes effect against a third party, the secured party is entitled to reclaim the collateral and the payment prescribed in

Section 353. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code and relevant laws.

Section 354. Original section/article: 298. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Registration of security 
1. Security shall be registered as agreed by the parties or provided by law. 
The registration shall be the condition for a secured transaction become valid only the case as prescribed by law. 
2. A registered security shall take effect against third party from the time of registration. 
3. The registration of security shall comply within regulations of law on registration of security.

Section 355. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cases of realization of collateral 
1. An obligator fails to perform or perform not as agreed an obligation when it falls due. 
2. An obligator must perform the secured obligation before time limit due to his/her violation against the obligation as agreed or prescribed by law. 
3. Other cases as agreed by the parties or prescribed by law.

Section 356. Original section/article: 300. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Notification of realization of collateral 
1. Before a collateral is realized, a secured party must notify the securing party and other secured parties of the realization of the collateral within a reasonable time limit. 
If the collateral at risk of being damaged resulting in diminished value or lose the entire value, a secured party may realize it immediately and notify the securing party and other secured parties of the realization of such asset. 
2. If the secured party does not notify the realization of collateral as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article that cause damage to the securing party and/or other secured parties, compensation must be made.

Section 357. Original section/article: 301. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giving collateral for realization The holder of collateral is obliged to give it to the secured party for realization in any of the cases prescribed in

Section 358. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code. 
If the holder of collateral fails to give the asset, the secured party is entitled to request a court for settlement, unless otherwise prescribed by relevant laws.

Section 359. Original section/article: 302. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to reclaim collateral 
The securing party may reclaim the collateral if, before the realization of the collateral, it completely performs its obligations and pay all expenses incurred for the late performance of obligations, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 360. Original section/article: 303. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Methods of realizing collateral 
1. The securing party and the secured party may agree any of the following methods of realizing collateral: 
a) Put collateral up for an auction; 
b) The secured party sells collateral itself; 
c) The secured party accepts the collateral as substitutions for the performance of obligations of the securing party; 
d) Other methods. 
2. If there is no agreement on methods of realizing collateral as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the collateral shall be put up for auction, unless otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 361. Original section/article: 304. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Selling collateral 
1. The collateral shall be put up for auction as prescribed by law on property auction. 
2. The collateral sold by the secured party must comply with the regulations on property sale in this Code and the regulations below: 
a) The payment amount derived from the realization of collateral shall comply with

Section 362. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code; 
b) The owner of collateral and the person competent to realize the collateral, upon the completion of the sale, shall comply with procedures for transfer of ownership rights to the buyer.

Section 363. Original section/article: 305. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Acceptance of the collateral as substitution for the performance of obligations of the securing party 
1. The secured party may accept the collateral as substitution for the performance of obligations of the securing party if agreed by the parties. 
2. If there is no agreement prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the secured party may only accept the collateral as substitution for the performance of obligations of the securing party with the written consent of the securing party. 
3. Where the value of the collateral is greater than the value of the secured obligation, the secured party must pay the difference amount to the securing party; where the value of the collateral is less than the value of the secured obligations then the unpaid obligations become unsecured obligations. 
4. The securing party is obliged to follow the procedures for transfer of ownership rights to the secured party as prescribed by law.

Section 364. Original section/article: 306. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Valuation of collateral 1. The securing party and the secured party may agree on collateral prices or have the collateral valuated by an asset valuation organization upon the realization of the collateral. 
If there is no agreement mentioned above, the collateral shall be valuated by an asset valuation organization. 
2. The valuation of the collateral must be objective and in conformity with market price. 
3. The asset valuation organization must compensate for any damage to the securing party and/or the secured party during the process of valuation due to its legal violations.

Section 365. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of the sum of money obtained from the realization of collateral 
1. The sum of money obtained from the realization of the collateral after deducting from the cost of preservation, capture and realization of the collateral shall be paid in order of priority specified in

Section 366. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code. 
2. Where the sum of money obtained from the realization of the collateral, after deducting from the cost of preservation, seizure and realization of the collateral is greater than the value of secured obligations, the difference amount must be paid to the securing party. 
3. Where the sum of money obtained from the realization of the collateral, after deducting from the cost of preservation, seizure and realization of the collateral is less than the value of secured obligations, part of the unpaid obligations are defined as unsecured obligations, unless the parties otherwise agree additional collateral. The secured party may request the obligor to perform the unpaid secured obligations.

Section 367. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Order of priority for payment between joint secured parties 
1. When an asset is used to secure the performance of many obligations, payment priority order between the joint secured parties shall be determined as follows: 
a) If all types of security take effect against a third party, the order of priority for payment shall be determined according to the order of effect against the third party; 
b) If there are some types of security take effect against a third party while some types of security do not take effect against the third party, the payment of obligations with security taking effect against the third party shall be given priority; 
c) If all types of security do not take effect against a third party, the order of priority for payment shall be determined according to the order of establishment of types of security. 
2. The order of priority for payment prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article may be changed as agreed by the parties. The subrogating party of the right to priority of payment shall only be given priority within the secured extent of the subrogated party. 
Sub-

Section 368. Original section/article: 309. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Pledge of property 
Pledge of property means the delivery by one party (hereinafter referred to as the pledgor) of property under its ownership to another party (hereinafter referred to as the pledgee) as security for the performance of an obligation.

Section 369. Original section/article: 310. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effectiveness of pledge of property 
1. Agreement on pledge of property shall take effect from the time of concluding, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law. 
2. Pledge of property shall take effect against third party from the time at which the pledgee keeps the pledged property. 
If an immovable property is the subject of pledge as prescribed in law, the pledge on immovable property shall take effect against third party from the time of registration.

Section 370. Original section/article: 311. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of pledgors 1. Deliver the pledged property to the pledgee as agreed. 
2. Notify the pledgee of any third person rights with respect to the pledged property. In the case of failure to provide such notice, the obligee shall have the right to cancel the contract of pledge of property and demand compensation for damage or the right to maintain the contract and agree on the rights of the third person with respect to the pledged property. 
3. Pay the pledgee reasonable expenses for taking care of and preserving the pledged property, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 371. Original section/article: 312. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of pledgors 1. Require the pledgee to suspend use of the pledged property in cases provided in Clause 3 of

Section 372. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code if the pledged property is in danger of losing its value or depreciating in value as a result of such use. 
2. Require the pledgee to hold the pledged property to return the pledged property and related documents after the obligation secured by the pledge has been fulfilled. 
3. Require the pledgee to compensate for any damage caused to the pledged property. 
4. Sell, substitute, exchange, or give the pledged property to other property if so agreed by the pledgee or prescribed by law.

Section 373. Original section/article: 313. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of pledgees 1. Take care of and preserve the pledged property; if the pledgee loses or damages the pledged property, the pledgee must compensate the pledgor for the damage. 
2. Do not sell, exchange, give or use the pledged property as security for the performance of another obligation. 
3. Do not lease, lend, exploit the yield or income derived from, the pledged property, unless otherwise agreed. 
4. Return the pledged property and related documents upon fulfillment of the secured obligation or where the pledge is substituted with another security.

Section 374. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of pledgees 
1. Require a person unlawfully possessing or using the pledged property to return the property. 
2. Demand the realization of the pledged property in accordance with the methods as agreed or as provided by law. 
3. Lease, lend, exploit, and to enjoy the yield and income derived from, the pledged property if so agreed. 
4. Receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in taking care of the pledged property upon returning the pledged property to the pledgor.

Section 375. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of pledges on property 
A pledge of property shall terminate in any of the following cases: 
1. The obligation secured by the pledge has terminated; 
2. The pledge has been cancelled or substituted with another security; 
3. The pledged property has been realized; 
4. As agreed by the parties.

Section 376. Original section/article: 316. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Return of pledged property 
Where a pledge of property is terminated in accordance with Clause 1 or Clause 2 of

Section 377. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code or as agreed by parties, the pledged property and documents evidencing the ownership rights with respect to the property shall be returned to the pledgor. Any yield and income derived from the pledged property shall also be returned to the pledgor, unless otherwise agreed. 
Sub-

Section 378. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
MORTGAGES ON PROPERTY

Section 379. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mortgage of property 
1. Mortgage of property means the use by one party (hereinafter referred to as the mortgagor) of property under the ownership of the obligor as security for the performance of an obligation to the other party (hereinafter referred to as the mortgagee) without transferring such property to the mortgagee. 
2. The mortgaged property shall be held by the mortgagor. The parties may agree to deliver the mortgaged property to a third person to hold.

Section 380. Original section/article: 318. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mortgaged property 1. Where entire immoveable property or moveable property having auxiliary objects is mortgaged, such auxiliary objects shall also form part of the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed. 
2. Where a portion of immoveable property or moveable property having auxiliary objects is mortgaged, such auxiliary objects shall also form part of the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. 
3. With respect to mortgage on land use rights that property on land is owned by the mortgagor, such property shall also part of the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed. 
4. Where mortgaged property is insured, the mortgagee must notify the insurer that the insured property is being mortgaged. The insurer shall pay the insured sum directly to the mortgagee upon occurrence of an insured event. 
If the mortgagee failed to notify the insurer that the insured property was mortgaged, the insurer shall pay the insured sum in accordance with the insurance contract and the mortgagor shall be obliged to make payment to the mortgagee.

Section 381. Original section/article: 319. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effectiveness of mortgage of property 1. Agreement on mortgage of property shall take effect from the time of concluding, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law. 
2. The mortgage of property shall take effect against third party from the time of registration.

Section 382. Original section/article: 320. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of mortgagor 1. Transfer documents related to the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law. 
2. Take care of and preserve the mortgaged property. 
3. If the mortgaged property is in danger of losing its value or depreciating in value due to its exploitation, to take necessary remedial measures, including ceasing the exploitation of the mortgaged property. 
4. When the mortgaged property is damaged, the mortgagor is obligated to, within a reasonable period, repair or substitute another property with equivalent value, unless otherwise agreed. 
5. Provide information about the actual condition of the mortgaged property to for the mortgagee. 
6. Deliver the mortgaged property to the mortgagee for realization in one of the cases prescribed in

Section 383. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code. 
7. Notify the mortgagee of any third person rights with respect to the mortgaged property (if any). In the case of failure to provide such notice, the mortgagee shall have the right to cancel the contract of mortgage of property and demand compensation for damage or the right to maintain the contract and agree on the rights of the third person with respect to the mortgaged property. 
8. Do not sell, exchange or give the mortgaged property, except in the cases provided in Clauses 4 and 5 of

Section 384. Original section/article: 321. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of mortgagor 1. Exploit, and to enjoy the yield and income derived from, the property, except where the yield and income also form part of the mortgaged property as agreed. 
2. Invest in order to increase the value of the mortgaged property. 
3. Recover the mortgaged property and related documents held by a third person when the obligation secured by the mortgage is terminated or is substituted by other security. 
4. Sell or replace mortgaged property being goods rotating during the production and business process. In the case of a sale of mortgaged property being goods rotating during the production and business process, the right to require the purchaser to pay money, the proceeds received or the assets formed from the proceeds received shall form the mortgaged property in substitution for the property which was sold. 
When a warehouse is mortgaged, the mortgagor may substitute goods in the warehouse but must ensure the value of the goods in the warehouse remains the value agreed. 
5. Sell, exchange or give mortgaged property not being goods rotating during the production and business process with the consent of the mortgagee or as prescribed by law. 
6. Lease or lend the mortgaged property provided that notice must be provided to the lessee and the borrower that the property is being mortgaged and that the mortgagee must also be notified that such notice has been provided.

Section 385. Original section/article: 322. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of mortgagees 1. Where the parties agree that the mortgagee will hold the documents relating to the mortgaged property, to return to the mortgagor such documents upon termination of the mortgage. 
2. Follow procedures for realization of mortgaged property in accordance with regulations of law.

Section 386. Original section/article: 323. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of mortgagees 1. Examine and inspect directly the mortgaged property provided that such examination and inspection does not hinder or cause difficulty to the use and exploitation of the mortgaged property. 
2. Require the mortgagor to provide information on the current status of the mortgaged property. 
3. Require the mortgagor to apply necessary measures to preserve the property and the value of the property if there is a danger that use and exploitation of the mortgaged property will cause loss of value or depreciation in value of the property. 
4. Conduct the registration of mortgage as prescribed by law. 
5. Require the mortgagor or a third person holding the mortgaged property to deliver it to the mortgagee for realization if, upon expiry of the term for fulfillment of the obligation, the obligor has failed to perform or performed incorrectly the obligation. 
6. Hold documents related to mortgaged property as agreed by parties, unless otherwise prescribed by law 
7. Follow procedures for realization of mortgaged property as prescribed in

Section 387. Original section/article: 324. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of third parties holding mortgaged property 
1. A third person holding mortgaged property has the following rights: 
a) Exploit the property if so agreed; 
b) Receive remuneration and be reimbursed for expenses incurred in taking care of and preserving the mortgaged property, unless otherwise agreed. 
2. A third person holding mortgaged property has the following obligations: 
a) Take care of and preserve the mortgaged property, and to compensate for any damage if the third person loses the mortgaged property or causes the mortgaged property to lose its value or depreciate in value; 
b) Cease the exploitation of the property if it is in danger of losing its value or depreciating in value; 
c) Return the mortgaged property to the mortgagee or mortgagor as agreed or prescribed by law.

Section 388. Original section/article: 325. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mortgage on land use rights without mortgage of property on land 
1. With respect to mortgage on land use rights without mortgage property on that land but the land user is also the owner of the property on land; such property shall also part of the realized property, unless otherwise agreed. 
2. With respect to mortgage on land use rights that the land user is not also the owner of the property on land, such owner may keep using such land within his/her rights and obligations during the realization of the land use rights. The rights and obligations of the mortgagor in relation with the owner of the property on land shall be transferred to the transferee of the land use rights, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 389. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mortgage of property on land without mortgage on land use rights 1. With respect to mortgage of property on land without mortgage on land use rights but the owner of the property on land is also the land user, such land use rights shall also part of the realized property, unless otherwise agreed. 
2. With respect to mortgage of property on land without mortgage on land use rights that the owner of the property on land is not also the land user, the transferee of property on land may keep using such property within the transferred rights and obligations from the owner of the property on land during the realization of the land use rights, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 390. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of property mortgages 
A mortgage of property shall terminate in any of the following cases: 
1. The obligation which is secured by the mortgage has terminated; 
2. The mortgage of the property has been cancelled or substituted with another security; 
3. The mortgaged property has been realized; 
4. As agreed by the parties. 
Sub-

Section 391. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
DEPOSIT, SECURITY COLLATERAL, ESCROW DEPOSIT

Section 392. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Deposit 
1. Deposit is an act whereby one party (hereinafter referred to as the depositor) transfers to another party (hereinafter referred to as the depositary) a sum of money or precious metals, gemstones or other valuable things (hereinafter referred to as the deposited property) for a period of time as security for the entering into or performance of a contract.
2. Upon a contract being entered into or performed, any deposited property shall be returned to the depositor, or deducted from the amount of an obligation to pay money. If the depositor refuses to enter into or perform the contract, the deposited property shall belong to the depositary. If the depositary refuses to enter into or perform the contract, it must return the deposited property and pay an amount equivalent to the value of the deposited property to the depositor, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 393. Original section/article: 329. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Security collateral 
1. Security collateral is an act whereby a lessee of a movable property transfers a sum of money or precious metals, gems or other valuable things (hereinafter referred to as security collateral property) to the lessor for a specified time limit to secure the return of the leased property.
2. In cases where the leased property is returned, the lessee shall be entitled to reclaim the security collateral property after pay the rental; if the lessee does not return the leased property, the lessor shall be entitled to reclaim the leased property; if the leased property is no longer available for the return, the security collateral property shall belong to the lessor.

Section 394. Original section/article: 330. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Escrow deposit 
1. Escrow deposit is an act whereby an obligor deposits a sum of money, precious metals, gems or valuable papers into an escrow account at a credit institution to secure the performance of an obligation.
2. In cases where the obligor has failed to perform or has improperly performed an obligation, the obligee shall be entitled to receive payment and compensation for damage caused by the obligor from the bank where the escrow deposit is affected, after deducting the bank service charges.
3. The procedures for making deposits and making payments shall be as provided by the law.
Sub-

Section 395. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Title retention 
1. In a sale contract, the ownership of property of the seller may remain until the buyer pays the purchase price in full.
2. Title retention must be made in a separate document or included in the sale contract.
3. The title retention shall take effect against third party from the time of registration.

Section 396. Original section/article: 332. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to reclaim property 
If the buyer fails to fulfill the payment obligation for the seller as agreed, the seller is entitled to reclaim the property. The seller shall refund the paid amount by the buyer deducted from the depreciated value due to use. Where the buyer lost or damaged property, the seller has the right to claim damages.

Section 397. Original section/article: 333. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the buyer 
1. Using the property and enjoying the yield and income derived therefrom within the effective term of title retention.
2. Facing the risks of the property within the effective term of the title retention, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 398. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of title retention The title retention shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. Payment obligation fulfilled completely by the buyer;
2. The seller receives the property under title retention back;
3. As agreed by the parties.
Sub-

Section 399. Original section/article: 335. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Guarantees 
1. Guarantee means an undertaking made by a third person (hereinafter referred to as the guarantor) to an obligee (hereinafter referred to as the creditor) to perform an obligation on behalf of an obligor (hereinafter referred to as the principal debtor) if the obligation falls due and the principal fails to perform or performs incorrectly the obligation.
2. The parties may agree that the guarantor shall only be obliged to perform the obligation if the principal debtor is incapable of performing it.

Section 400. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope of guarantees 1. A guarantor may guarantee an obligation in whole or in part on behalf of a principal debtor.
2. A guaranteed obligation includes interest on the principal, penalties and compensation for any damage and interest on late payment, unless otherwise agreed.
3. The parties may agree on using security as property to secure the performance of guaranteed obligation.
4. If the obligation to guarantee is an obligation arising in the future, the scope of guarantee is exclusive of any obligations arising after the guarantor being natural person dies or the guarantor being juridical person ceases to exist.

Section 401. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Remuneration 
The guarantor shall be entitled to receive remuneration if so agreed by the guarantor with the principal debtor.

Section 402. Original section/article: 338. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Joint guarantors 
When more than one person guarantee an obligation, those persons must perform jointly the guarantee, except where it is agreed or provided by law that the guarantee comprises separate portions. The obligee may require any of the joint guarantors to perform the obligation in its entirety.
Where one of the joint guarantors has performed the entire obligation on behalf of the principal debtor, the guarantor may require the other guarantors to perform their respective portions of the obligation with respect to that guarantor.

Section 403. Original section/article: 339. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Relationship between guarantors and creditors 
1. If the principal fails to perform or performs incorrectly the obligation, the creditor is entitled to request the guarantor to fulfill the guaranteed obligation , unless contracting parties has agreed that the guarantor only be required to perform the obligation on behalf of the principal debtor in case of the failure to perform obligation by the principal debtor.
2. A creditor may not require a guarantor to perform an obligation on behalf of the principal debtor until the obligation falls due.
3. Where a guarantor is able to offset an obligation with a principal debtor, a guarantor does not have to perform the guaranteed obligation.

Section 404. Original section/article: 340. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights to require of guarantors 
Each guarantor may require the principal debtor to indemnify the guarantor to the extent of the guarantee, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 405. Original section/article: 341. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Discharge from guaranteed obligations 
1. Where the guarantor must perform the guaranteed obligation but the creditor discharges the guarantor from an obligation, the principal debtor is discharged from performance of the obligation with respect to the creditor, except where it is agreed or provided by law.
2. Where one person from amongst the joint guarantors is discharged from the performance of its portion of the guaranteed obligation, the other joint guarantors must, nevertheless, perform their portion of the guaranteed obligation.
3. Where one person from amongst the joint creditors discharge the guarantor from the performance of its portion of the guaranteed obligation, the guarantor must, nevertheless, perform their portion of the guaranteed obligation with respect to remaining joint creditors.

Section 406. Original section/article: 342. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability of guarantor 
1. If the principal debtor fails to perform or perform incorrectly the obligation, the guarantor is obligated to perform such obligation.
2. If the guarantor performs incorrectly the guaranteed obligation, the creditor is entitled to request the guarantor to pay the value of the breached obligation and compensate for any damage.

Section 407. Original section/article: 343. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of guarantees A guarantee shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The obligation secured by the guarantee terminates;
2. The guarantee is cancelled or is substituted by another security;
3. The guarantor has satisfied the guaranteed obligation;
4. As agreed by the parties.
Sub-

Section 408. Original section/article: 344. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Fidelity guarantees provided by socio-political organizations 
A socio-political organization at the grassroots level may provide a fidelity guarantee in order that poor individuals and households are able to borrow sums from banks or other credit institutions for purposes of production, business or provision of services in accordance with the regulations of law.

Section 409. Original section/article: 345. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Formalities and contents of fidelity guarantees 
A loan guaranteed by a fidelity guarantee must be made in writing with certification of a socio- political organization in terms of conditions and circumstances of the borrower.
The agreement on fidelity guarantee must specify the loan amount, the purpose of loan, the term of loan, the interest rate, and the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the borrower, the lending bank or credit institution and the guarantor organization.
Sub-

Section 410. Original section/article: 346. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lien on property 
Lien on property means that the obligee (hereinafter referred to as the lienor) who is legally possessing the property being an object of a bilateral contract is entitled to retain the property when the obligor fails to perform the obligations or has performed the obligations not strictly as agreed upon.

Section 411. Original section/article: 347. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishment of lien on property 
1. Lien on property shall arise from the due time for performance of obligation that the obligor failed to perform or perform incorrectly the obligation.
2. Lien on property shall take effect against third party from the time of possession of the possessor.

Section 412. Original section/article: 348. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of lienors 1. Request the obligor to fulfill completely the obligations arising from a bilateral contract.
2. Require the obligor to pay expenses necessary for taking care of and keeping such property.
3. Exploit the property to obtain yield and income therefrom with the consent of the obligor.
The value of benefits from the exploitation of the property shall be offset against the value of the obligation of the obligor.

Section 413. Original section/article: 349. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of lienors 1. Take care and preserve the property
2. Do not change the status of the property.
3. Do not transfer or use the property without the consent of the obligor.
4. Return the property upon the complete performance of the obligation.
5. Compensate for lost or damaged property.

Section 414. Original section/article: 350. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of lien on property A lien on property shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The lienor actually no longer retains the property;
2. Contracting parties shall agree on another security instead of retain on property;
3. upon the complete performance of the obligation;
4. The property ceases to exist;
5. As agreed by the parties.

Section 415. Original section/article: 351. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability arising from breach of civil obligations 
1. An obligor which fails to perform or performs incorrectly an obligation has civil liability to the obligee.
Breach of obligations means that the obligor fails to perform the obligations on time, perform the obligations incompletely or incorrectly.
2. Where an obligor is not able to perform a civil obligation due to an event of force majeure, it shall not have civil liability, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
3. An obligor shall not have civil liability if it is able to prove that failure to perform an obligation is due entirely to the fault of the obligee.

Section 416. Original section/article: 352. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Responsibility for continuing performing obligations 
When an obligor perform its obligations improperly, the obligee is entitled to request the obligor to continue perform such obligations.

Section 417. Original section/article: 353. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Late performance of civil obligations 
1. Late performance of a civil obligation is the failure to have performed the civil obligation in whole or in part as at the expiry of the time-limit for the performance of such obligation.
2. The party being late in performance of a civil obligation must notify immediately the obligee about the failure to have performed the civil obligation in a timely manner.

Section 418. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Postponement of performance of civil obligations 
1. When it is not possible to perform a civil obligation on time, the obligor must inform immediately the obligee and may suggest postponement of performance of the civil obligation.
In the case of failure to notify the obligee, the obligor must compensate for any damage arising, unless otherwise agreed or unless it was impossible to provide notification due to objective reasons.
2. The obligor may postpone the performance of the obligation only if the obligee consents. The performance of the civil obligation in this case of postponement shall be deemed to be performance in a timely manner.

Section 419. Original section/article: 355. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Late acceptance of performance of civil obligations 
1. The late acceptance of the performance of a civil obligation is where the time-limit for the fulfillment of the civil obligation has expired and the obligor has already fulfilled the civil obligation as agreed but the obligee does not accept the performance of such obligation.
2. When the subject matter of late acceptance of performance of a civil obligation is property, the obligor may hand over the property to a bailee must or take the necessary measures to take care of the property and is entitled to demand reimbursement of reasonable expenses. If the property is kept by a bailee, the obligor must notify the obligee.
3. The obligor has the right to sell property which is in danger of being damaged or of deteriorating, and shall pay the proceeds of sale of such property to the obligee after deducting necessary expenses for the preservation and sale of the property.

Section 420. Original section/article: 356. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability for failure to perform obligations to deliver objects 
1. Where an obligor fails to deliver a distinctive object, the obligee has the right to require the obligor to deliver that particular object. If the object no longer exists or is damaged, the obligor must pay the value of the object.
2. Where an obligor fails to deliver a fungible object, the obligee has the right to require the obligor to deliver another fungible object. If there is no fungible object, the obligor must pay the value of the object.
3. Where an obligor fails to perform an obligation as provided in clauses 1 and 2 of this article and causes damage to the obligee, the obligor must compensate for any damage.

Section 421. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for late performance of the obligation to pay 
1. Where the obligor makes late payment, then it must pay interest on the unpaid amount corresponding to the late period.
2. Interest arising from late payments shall be determined by agreement of the parties, but may not exceed the interest rate specified in paragraph 1 of

Section 422. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code; if there no agreement mentioned above, the Clause 2 of

Section 423. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall apply.

Section 424. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability for failure to perform obligations to perform acts or not to perform acts 
1. Where an obligor fails to perform an act which it must perform, the obligee has the right to request the obligor to perform the act, or the obligee may perform the act or assign the performance of the act to another person and to require the obligor pay reasonable expenses incurred and compensate for any damage.
2. Where a person has an obligation not to perform an act but, nevertheless, performs such act, the obligee has the right to require the obligor to cease performing the act, make restitution and compensate for any damage.

Section 425. Original section/article: 359. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for late acceptance of performance of civil obligations 
An obligee which is late in accepting the performance of a civil obligation, and thereby causes damage to the obligor, must compensate the obligor for any damage and shall accept all risks arising from the time when acceptance fell due, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 426. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for compensation due to breach of obligations 
With respect to damage caused by breach of an obligation, the obligor must compensate for the whole damage, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law.

Section 427. Original section/article: 361. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Damage caused by breach of obligations 1. Damage caused by breach of obligations comprises physical damage and spiritual damage.
2. The physical damage means those actual physical losses, comprising loss of property, reasonable expenses to prevent, mitigate or restore damage, and the actual loss or reduction of income.
3. Spiritual damage means losses related to life, health, honor, dignity or reputation and other personal benefits of an entity.

Section 428. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The obligation to prevent or limit damage The obligee must adopt the necessary and reasonable measures to prevent or limit its damage.

Section 429. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damages in case of the aggrieved party at fault 
Where the breach of the obligations and damage incurred due to part of the fault of the aggrieved party, the violating party only be required to pay damages corresponding to its degree of fault.

Section 430. Original section/article: 364. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Fault in civil liability 
Fault in civil liability includes intentional fault and unintentional fault.
Intentional fault means that a person is fully aware that its act will cause damage to another person but, nevertheless, performs the act and, irrespective of whether or not it so wishes, allows the damage to occur.
Unintentional means that a person does not foresee that its act is capable of causing damage, even though it knows or should know that the damage will occur, or where it does foresee that such act is capable of causing damage but believes that the damage will not occur or will be able to be prevented.

Section 431. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
TRANSFER OF RIGHT TO DEMAND AND TRANSFER OF CIVIL OBLIGATIONS

Section 432. Original section/article: 365. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of right to demand 
1. A party having the right to demand the performance of a civil obligation may transfer such right to demand to a subrogatee of the obligee as agreed, except in the following cases:
a) The right is the right to demand support or the right to demand compensation for any damage resulting from harm to life, health, honor, dignity or reputation;
b) The obligee and the obligor agree that the right to demand may not be transferred;
2. Where a person having a right to demand transfers such right to a subrogatee, the subrogatee of the obligee shall become the person having the right to demand. The transfer of right to demand does not require the consent of the obligor.
A person transferring a right must notify the obligor in writing of the transfer of the right to demand, unless otherwise agreed. If the person transferring the right fails to notify the obligor thereby the obligor incurs expenses, the person transferring the right must pay for those expenses.

Section 433. Original section/article: 366. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to provide information and documents 
1. A person transferring a right to demand must provide the necessary information and the relevant documents to the subrogatee of the obligee.
2. A person transferring a right to demand and breaching the provisions in Clause 1 of this Article, thereby causing damage, must compensate for such damage.

Section 434. Original section/article: 367. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
No liability after transfer of right to demand 
A person transferring a right to demand shall not be liable for the capability of the obligor to perform the obligation, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 435. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of right to demand performance of secured civil obligations 
Where a right to demand the performance of a secured civil obligation is transferred, the transfer of the right to demand shall include the security.

Section 436. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to refuse of obligors 
1. Where the obligor is not notified of the transfer of the right to demand or where the subrogatee of the obligee does not prove the authenticity of the transfer of the right to demand, the obligor has the right to refuse to perform the obligation with respect to the subrogatee of the obligee.
2. Where the obligor is not notified of the transfer of the right to demand and has already fulfilled the obligation with respect to the person having transferred the right to demand, the subrogatee of the obligee may not demand the obligor to perform the obligation with respect to that subrogatee.

Section 437. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of civil obligations 
1. An obligor may transfer a civil obligation to a subrogatee of the obligor with the consent of the obligee, except where the obligation is personal to the obligor or where the law provides that the obligation may not be transferred.
2. Upon a transfer of the obligation, the subrogatee of the obligor shall become the obligor.

Section 438. Original section/article: 371. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of secured civil obligations 
Where a secured civil obligation is transferred, the security shall terminate, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 439. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
TERMINATION OF CIVIL OBLIGATIONS

Section 440. Original section/article: 372. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations A civil obligation shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The obligation is fulfilled;
2. The parties so agree;
3. The obligee waives performance of the obligation;
4. The obligation is substituted by another civil obligation;
5. The obligation is offset;
6. The obligee and the obligor merge;
7. The limitation period for a release from the civil obligation has expired;
8. The obligor being a natural person dies, or the obligor being a juridical person ceases to exist, and the obligation must be performed by that particular natural person or juridical person;
9. The obligee being a natural person dies and the right to demand does not form part of the bequeathed estate, or the obligee being a juridical person ceases to exist and the right to demand is not able to be transferred to another juridical person;
10. A distinctive object which is the subject matter of the civil obligation no longer exists and is substituted by another civil obligation.
11. Other cases as provided by law.

Section 441. Original section/article: 373. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Fulfillment of civil obligations 
The civil obligation shall be deemed to be have been fulfilled when the obligor has performed the obligation in its entirety, or has performed a portion of the obligation and the obligee waives any further performance.

Section 442. Original section/article: 374. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Fulfillment of civil obligations where obligees are late in accepting subject matter of obligations 
When an obligee is late in accepting the subject matter of an obligation which is an object, the obligation to deliver an object shall be fulfilled at the moment when the object is deposited for bailment as prescribed in Clause 2

Section 443. Original section/article: 375. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations by agreement 
Parties may agree to terminate a civil obligation at any time but must not cause damage to the interests of the State or the public or the legal rights or interests of other persons.

Section 444. Original section/article: 376. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations due to waiver 
1. A civil obligation shall terminate when the obligee waives the obligation of the obligor, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. When a secured civil obligation is waived, the security arrangement shall also terminate.

Section 445. Original section/article: 377. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations by substitution 
1. Where parties agree to substitute an original civil obligation with another civil obligation, the original civil obligation shall terminate.
2. A civil obligation shall also terminate if the obligee has accepted another property or the performance of another act as a substitute for the property or act previously agreed.
3. Where a civil obligation is an obligation to support others or to compensate for any damage due to harm to life, health, honor, dignity or reputation, or another personal obligation which is not able to be transferred to other persons, such obligation may not be substituted with another obligation.

Section 446. Original section/article: 378. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations where obligations are offset 
1. Where parties have reciprocal obligations with respect to fungible objects, when both obligations fall due, the parties shall not be required to perform their obligations to each other, and the obligations shall be deemed to have terminated, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. Where the values of properties or acts are not equivalent, the parties shall settle with each other the difference in value.
3. Objects having monetary value may be used to offset an obligation to pay money.

Section 447. Original section/article: 379. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cases where civil obligations may not be offset A civil obligation may not be offset in the following cases:
1. The civil obligation is in dispute;
2. The obligation is to compensate for harm to life, health, dignity, honor or reputation;
3. The obligation is to support others;
4. Other obligations as provided by law.

Section 448. Original section/article: 380. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations upon merger of obligor and obligee 
A civil obligation of an obligor shall terminate when the obligor becomes the obligee with respect to that particular obligation.

Section 449. Original section/article: 381. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations due to expiry of duration of waiver of civil obligation 
Upon expiry of the duration of waiver of a civil obligation, the obligation shall terminate.

Section 450. Original section/article: 382. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations when obligor being natural person dies or when obligor being juridical person ceases to exist 
Where parties have agreed or the law provides that an obligation must be performed by a particular obligor, when such natural person dies or such juridical person ceases to exist, the obligation shall terminate.

Section 451. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations when distinctive objects no longer exist 
An obligation to deliver a distinctive object shall terminate when such distinctive object no longer exists.
Parties may agree on the substitution of such object with another object or on compensation for any damage.

Section 452. Original section/article: 384. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of civil obligations in cases of bankruptcy 
In cases of bankruptcy, civil obligations shall terminate in accordance with the Law on bankruptcy.

Section 453. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
ENTERING INTO CIVIL CONTRACTS

Section 454. Original section/article: 385. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Definition of civil contract 
Civil contract means an agreement between parties in relation to the establishment, modification or termination of civil rights and obligations.

Section 455. Original section/article: 386. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Offers to enter into civil contracts 
1. Offer to enter into a contract means a clear expression by the offeror of its intention to enter into a contract and to be bound by such offer made to another specific party or the public (hereinafter referred to as the offeree).
2. Where an offer to enter into a contract has specified the time for reply and the offeror enters into a contract with a third person during the time-limit for reply by the offeree, if the offeror fails to enter into the contract with the offeree and the offeree suffers damage, the offeror must compensate the offeree for such damage.

Section 456. Original section/article: 387. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Information in entering into contracts 
1. Each party must notify the other party of any piece of information affecting the acceptance of offer to enter into the contract by the latter party.
2. When a party receives any secret information from the other party during the process of entering into the contract, it must protect that information and may not use it for its own purposes or other illegal purposes.
3. Any party violating Clause 1 or Clause 2 of this Article thereby causes damage must compensate for it.

Section 457. Original section/article: 388. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time-limit within which offer to enter into contract remains effective 
1. The time-limit within which an offer to enter into a contract remains effective shall be determined as follows:
a) Where an offeror has specified such time-limit;
b) Where an offeror has not specified the time-limit, the offer to enter into the contract is effective as from the time the offeree receives the offer.
2. The following cases shall be deemed to be receipt of an offer to enter into a contract:
a) The offer is delivered to the place of residence if the offeree is a natural person, or the offer is delivered to the head office if the offeree is a juridical person;
b) The offer is placed into the official information system of the offeree;
c) When the offeree knows about the offer to enter into a contract by way of other means.

Section 458. Original section/article: 389. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Modification or withdrawal of offers to enter into contracts 1. An offeror may modify or withdraw an offer to enter into a contract in the following cases:
a) If the offeree receives notice of modification or withdrawal of the offer prior to or at the same time as receipt of the offer;
b) The offeror clearly specified the circumstances in which the offer could be modified or withdrawn and such circumstances have in fact arisen.
2. When the offeror modifies the contents of the offer, that offer shall be deemed to be a new offer.

Section 459. Original section/article: 390. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rescission of offers to enter into contracts 
If the offeror exercises the right to rescind the offer to enter into a contract on the ground that such right was specified in the offer, the offeror must notify the offeree and such notice shall only be effective if the offeree receives the notice prior to the offeree providing its acceptance of the offer to enter into the contract.

Section 460. Original section/article: 391. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of offers to enter into contracts An offer to enter into a civil contract shall terminate in the following cases:
1. The offeree replies that the offer is accepted.
2. The offeree replies that the offer is not accepted;
3. The time-limit for acceptance has expired;
4. When notice of modification or withdrawal of the offer becomes effective;
5. When notice of rescission of the offer becomes effective;
6. As agreed by the offeror and the offeree within the time-limit within which the offer to enter into a contract remains effective.

Section 461. Original section/article: 392. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Amendment of offer proposed by offeree 
When an offeree accepts the offer to enter into a contract but specifies conditions or amendments to the offer, the offeree shall be deemed to have made a new offer.

Section 462. Original section/article: 393. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Acceptance of offers to enter into contracts 
1. Acceptance of an offer to enter into a contract means a reply by the offeree to the offeror accepting the entire contents of the offer.
2. The silence of the offeree shall not mean an acceptance of the offer to enter into the contract, unless it is agreed upon or habit established by the parties.

Section 463. Original section/article: 394. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time-limits for acceptance of offers to enter into civil contracts 
1. Where an offeror has specified a time limit for reply, a reply accepting shall only be effective if it is made within that time limit. If the offeror receives an acceptance after the time-limit has expired, such acceptance shall be deemed to be a new offer from the party which is late in replying.
When the offeror does not specify the time limit for reply, the reply accepting shall only be effective if it is made within reasonable period.
2. If a notice of acceptance of an offer to enter into a contract arrives late for objective reasons which the offeror knows or should know, such notice shall still be effective, unless the offeror immediately replies that it does not agree with such acceptance by the offeree.
3. Where the parties communicate directly, including conversations by telephone or other means of communication, the offeree must reply immediately as to whether or not it will accept, except where there is an agreement on the time-limit for reply.

Section 464. Original section/article: 395. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cases where offeror dies or lacks of legal capacity or has limited cognition and behavior control 
Where the offeror dies or lacks of legal capacity or has limited cognition and behavior control after the offeree has replied accepting the offer, the offer to enter into a contract shall still be valid, unless the contents of contract is associated with the personal identity of the offeror.

Section 465. Original section/article: 396. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cases where offeree dies or lacks of legal capacity or has limited cognition and behavior control 
Where the offeree dies or lacks of legal capacity or has limited cognition and behavior control after the offeree has replied accepting the offer, the offer to enter into a contract shall still be valid, unless the contents of contract is associated with the personal identity of the offeror.

Section 466. Original section/article: 397. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Withdrawal of notice of acceptance to enter into contract 
The offeree may withdraw notice of acceptance to enter into a contract if such notice arrives prior to or at the same time as the offeror receives the reply accepting the offer to enter into a contract.

Section 467. Original section/article: 398. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of contracts 1. The contracting parties may agree on the contents of a contract.
2. A contract may have the following contents:
a) Subject matter of the contract;
b) Quantity and quality;
c) Price and method of payment;
d) Time-limit, place and method of performing the contract;
dd) Rights and obligations of the parties;
e) Liability for breach of contract;
g) Methods of settlement of disputes.

Section 468. Original section/article: 399. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Places for entering into contracts 
The place where a contract is entered into shall be as agreed by the parties; if there is no agreement, such place shall be the residence of the individual, or the head office of the legal entity, having made the offer to enter into the contract.

Section 469. Original section/article: 400. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time when contracts are entered into 
1. A contract is entered into at the time when the offeror receives the reply accepting to enter into the contract.
2. If the parties have agreed that silence shall constitute an acceptance within a time limit, the contract shall also be deemed to be entered into when such time-limit has expired.
3. The time when an oral contract is entered into is the time when the parties have reached agreement on the contents of the contract.
4. The time when a written contract is entered into shall be the time when the last party signs the contract or by other forms of written acceptance.
If a contract is entered into orally and then it is made in writing, the time when the contract is entered into shall be determined as prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article.

Section 470. Original section/article: 401. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effectiveness of contracts 
1. A contract legally entered into shall take effect from the time when it is entered into, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
2. From the effective date of the contract, contracting parties must mutually exercise rights and perform obligations as agreed. A contract may be amended or terminated as agreed by the parties or prescribed by law.

Section 471. Original section/article: 402. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Principal types of contracts Contracts comprise the following principal types:
1. A bilateral contract is a contract whereby each party has an obligation to the other;
2. A unilateral contract is a contract whereby only one party has an obligation;
3. A principal contract is a contract the effectiveness of which does not depend on another contract;
4. An ancillary contract is a contract the effectiveness of which depends on a principal contract;
5. A contract for the benefit of a third person is a contract whereby contracting parties must perform obligations for the benefit of a third person and the third person enjoys benefits from such performance;
6. A conditional contract is a contract the performance of which depends on the occurrence, modification or termination of a specified event.

Section 472. Original section/article: 403. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Appendices to contracts 
1. Appendices providing details on certain terms and conditions of a contract may be attached to the contract. The appendices shall have the same effectiveness as the contract. The contents of the appendices shall not contradict the contents of the contract.
2. If the terms and conditions of the appendices contradict the terms and conditions of the contract, such terms and conditions of the appendices shall be ineffective, unless otherwise agreed. If the parties agree that the terms and conditions of the appendices contradict the terms and conditions of the contract, the terms and conditions of the contract which are contradicted shall be deemed to have been amended.

Section 473. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Interpretation of contracts 
1. Where a contract contains terms and conditions which are unclear, the interpretation of such terms and conditions shall be based not only on the wording of the contract but also on the mutual intentions of the parties during the process prior to and after the time of establishment and performance of the contract.
2. Where a term of a contract may be interpreted in different ways, it shall be interpreted in the way which, when effective, will best benefit the parties.
3. Where the wording of a contract may be interpreted in different ways, such wording shall be interpreted in the way most appropriate to the nature of the contract.
4. Where a contract contains a term or wording which is difficult to understand, such term or wording shall be interpreted in accordance with the customary practice of the place where the contract was entered into.
5. Where there is a conflict between the mutual intentions of the parties and the wording used in the contract, the mutual intentions of the parties shall be used in order to interpret the contract.
6. Where the party in a powerful position inserts into the contract contents which are disadvantageous to the party in a weak position, the contract shall be interpreted in a manner favoring the party in a weak position.

Section 474. Original section/article: 405. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Standard form contracts 
1. Standard form contract means a contract containing terms and conditions which are prepared by a party based on a standard form requiring the other party to reply within a reasonable period of time. If the offeree accepts, it shall be deemed to have accepted the entire contract provided by the offeror.
The standard form contract must be public in order for the parties to know or should know the contents of the contract.
Procedures for announcement of standard form contract shall comply with regulations of law.
2. Where a standard form contract contains terms and conditions which are unclear, such terms and conditions shall be interpreted in a manner favoring the offeree.
3. Where a standard form contract contains provisions exempting the party providing such standard form contract from liability, or increasing the liability of or waiving legitimate interests of the other party, such provisions shall be ineffective, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 475. Original section/article: 406. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
General trading conditions in concluding contracts 
1. General trading conditions are stable terms announced by a party to apply to the offeree; if the offeree accepts the contract is then deemed to accept these terms.
2. General trading conditions shall be effective only with the parties as long as these conditions have been publicly in order for the parties to know or should know them.
The procedures for announcement of general trading conditions shall comply with regulations of law.
3. The general trading conditions must ensure equality between the parties. If the general trading conditions contain provisions on discharge of liability from the party giving the general trading conditions, increase of responsibility or removal of the legitimate interests of the other party, these provisions do not take effect, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 476. Original section/article: 407. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalid civil contracts 
1. The provisions on invalid civil transactions in Articles 123 to 138 inclusive of this Code shall also govern invalid contracts.
2. Invalidity of a principal contract shall terminate an ancillary contract, unless the parties agree that the ancillary contract replaces the principal contract. This provision shall not apply with respect to security for the performance of civil obligations.
3. Invalidity of an ancillary contract shall not terminate the principal contract, unless the parties agree that the ancillary contract is an inseparable part of the principal contract.

Section 477. Original section/article: 408. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Invalidity of civil contracts due to impossibility of performing subject matter 
1. If, immediately as from the time a contract is signed, it is impossible to perform the subject matter of the contract for objective reasons, the contract shall be invalid.
2. If, when entering into a contract, one party knew or should have known that it was impossible to perform the subject matter of the contract for objective reasons but failed to notify the other party which entered into the contract, the former party must compensate the latter party for damage, unless the latter party knew or should have known that it was impossible to perform the subject matter of the contract.
3. The provision in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article shall also apply to a contract containing one or more parts with subject matter which is impossible to perform, but the remaining parts of the contract shall remain valid.
Sub-

Section 478. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTS

Section 479. Original section/article: 409. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of unilateral contracts 
With respect to a unilateral contract, the obligor must perform the obligation strictly as agreed. The obligor may only perform the obligation prior to or after the time-limit with the consent of the obligee.

Section 480. Original section/article: 410. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of bilateral contracts 
1. With respect to a bilateral contract, where the parties have agreed on a time limit for the performance of an obligation, each party must perform its obligation when the obligation falls due. One party may not postpone performance by reason of the other party not having performed the obligations owed to the former party, except in the cases provided in Articles 411 and 413 of this Code.
2. Where the parties have no agreement on which party will perform its obligation first, the parties must perform their obligations concurrently; where obligations are not able to be performed concurrently, the obligation the performance of which will take longer shall be performed first.

Section 481. Original section/article: 411. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to postpone performance of civil obligations in bilateral contracts 
1. The party which is required to perform its obligation first has the right to postpone the performance of such obligation, if the property of the other party has substantially decreased in value such that its obligation is not able to be performed as undertaken, until the other party is able to perform its obligation or has a guarantor.
2. The party which is required to perform its obligation last has the right to postpone the performance of such obligation when it falls due if the party which was required to perform its obligation first failed to do so when such obligation fell due.

Section 482. Original section/article: 412. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lien on property in bilateral contracts 
If the obligor fails to perform his/her obligations, the obligee shall establish the right to lien on property of the obligor as prescribed in

Section 483. Original section/article: 413. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations not able to be performed due to fault of obligee 
With respect to a bilateral contract, when one party is not able to perform its obligations due to the fault of the other party, the former party has the right to demand the latter party to continue to perform its obligation with respect to the former party or has the right to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 484. Original section/article: 414. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Failure to perform obligations not due to fault of parties 
With respect to a bilateral contract, when one party is not able to perform its obligations but there is no fault of any party, the party not being able to perform does not have the right to demand the other party to perform its obligation with respect to the former party. When one party has performed part of its obligations, such party has the right to demand the other party to perform its corresponding obligation with respect to the former party.

Section 485. Original section/article: 415. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of contracts for benefit of third parties 
Where a contract is performed for the benefit of a third person, the third person has the right to demand personally the obligor to perform the obligations with respect to such third person. If there is a dispute between the parties over the performance of the contract, the third person does not have the right to demand performance until the dispute is resolved.
An obligee also has the right to demand the obligor perform a contract for the benefit of a third person.

Section 486. Original section/article: 416. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to waive of third persons 
1. Where a third person waives its right to benefits prior to the performance of an obligation by an obligor, the obligor shall not be required to perform the obligation but must notify the obligee, the contract shall be deemed to be cancelled, and each party shall return anything it has received from the other party.
2. If a third person waives its [right to] benefits after the obligor has performed the obligation, the obligation shall be deemed to have been fulfilled and the obligee must perform its
undertakings with respect to the obligor. In this case, benefits derived from the contract shall be enjoyed by a party that should have been the beneficiary if the contract is performed for the interests of a third party, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 487. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
No amendment or cancellation of contracts for benefit of third persons 
Where a third person has agreed to receive a benefit, the parties to the contract may not amend or cancel the contract, even where the contract is yet to be performed, except with the consent of the third person.

Section 488. Original section/article: 418. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Agreements on fines against violations 
1. Agreements on fines for violations are reached by the parties to a contract which requires the violating party to pay a fine to the aggrieved party.
2. The fine levels shall be agreed among the parties, unless otherwise prescribed by relevant laws.
3. The parties may reach an agreement that the violating party has to pay only a fine for violations and is not liable to any compensation for damage, or has to pay both a fine for violations and a compensation for damage.
In case the parties have an agreement on fines against violation which does not specify that the violating party has to pay both a find for violations and a compensation for damage, then the violating party has to pay only the fine for violations.

Section 489. Original section/article: 419. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
The damage to be compensated for breach of contract 
1. The damage to be compensated for breach of contractual obligations is determined in accordance with Clause 2 of this Article,

Section 490. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The obligee may demand compensation for damage to its supposed benefits that will be enjoyed by the contract offer. The obligee also may request the obligor to pay the costs incurred due to its non-fulfillment of contractual obligations which do not overlap with the compensation for damages for contractual benefits.
3. At the request of the obligee, a court may compel the obligor to pay spiritual damages to the obligee. The damages shall be decided by the court according to contents of case.

Section 491. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of contract upon the basic change of circumstances 1. The change of circumstances shall be deemed basic when it meets all following conditions:
a) The circumstances change due to objective reasons occurred after the conclusion of the contract;
b) At the time of concluding the contract, the parties could not foresee a change in circumstances;
c) The circumstances change such greatly that if the parties know in advance, the contract has not been concluded or are concluded, but with completely different content;
d) The continuation of the contract without the change in the contract would cause serious damage to one party;
dd) The party having interests adversely affected has adopted all the necessary measures in its ability, in accordance with the nature of the contract, cannot prevent or minimize the extent of effect.
2. In the case of basic circumstances change, the affected party may request the other party to the re-negotiate the contract in a reasonable period of time.
3. If the parties cannot reach an agreement on amending the contract within a reasonable period of time, any of the parties may request a court to:
a) Terminate the contract at a specific time;
b) Amend the contract to balance the lawful rights and interests of the parties due to basic change of circumstances.
The court may only decide to amend the contract in the event that the termination of the contract would cause greater damage than the cost to perform the contract if it is modified.
4. In the process of negotiating amendments and termination of the contract and the court handling the case, the parties must continue to perform its obligations under the contract, unless otherwise agreed.
Sub-

Section 492. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS

Section 493. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Amendment to contracts 1. Parties may agree to amend a contract.
2. Each contract may be amended as prescribed in

Section 494. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Each amended contract must also comply which the formalities of the initial contract.

Section 495. Original section/article: 422. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of contracts A civil contract shall terminate in any of the following cases:
1. The contract has been completed;
2. The parties so agree;
3. Where a contract is only able to be performed by a particular natural person or juridical person having entered into the contract, and that particular natural person dies or that juridical person ceases to exist.
4. The contract is cancelled or unilaterally terminated;
5. The contract is not able to be performed because the subject matter of the contract no longer exists;
6. The contract terminates as prescribed in

Section 496. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
7. Others circumstances as provided by law.

Section 497. Original section/article: 423. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of contracts 
1. A party has the right to cancel a contract and shall not be liable to compensate for damage in any of the following cases:
a) A violation of contract by the other party gives rise to cancellation as agreed by the parties;
b) The other party seriously violates the obligations in the contract;
c) Others circumstances as provided by law.
2. Serious violation means the failure to fulfill obligations properly by a party leading the failure to achieve the purposes of entering into contract by the other party.
3. A party cancelling a contract must notify the other party immediately of the cancellation [and] must compensate if the failure to notify causes damage.

Section 498. Original section/article: 424. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of the contract due to late performance of obligations 
1. Where the obligor fails to perform the obligations that the obligee requests in a reasonable period of time but the obligor still fails to perform, the obligee may cancel the contract.
2. If, due to the nature of the contract or by the will of the parties, the contract will not achieve the objective if it is not performed within a certain time limit, but the obligor fails to perform that contract upon the expiry date of such time limit, the obligee has the right to cancel the contract without adherence to Clause 1 of this Article.

Section 499. Original section/article: 425. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of the contract due to inability to perform 
Where the obligor cannot perform part or all of its obligations to make the purpose of the obligee may not be reached, the obligee party can cancel the contract and claim damages.

Section 500. Original section/article: 426. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of the contract in the case of lost or damaged property 
Where a party losses or causes damage to property being the subject of a contract that cannot be refunded or compensated by other property or cannot be repaired or replaced with the same type of property, the other party may cancel contract.
The violating party shall compensate in cash equal to the value of lost or damaged property, unless otherwise agreed or stipulated in Clause 2, Clause 3,

Section 501. Original section/article: 427. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Consequences of cancellation of contracts 
1. When a contract is canceled, the contract is void from the time of signing; the parties do not have to fulfill the obligations agreed upon, except for agreement on fines against violations, compensation and settlement of disputes.
2. The parties must return to each other what they have received after deducting from the reasonable costs of contract performance and cost of preservation and development of property.
The refund is made in kind. In case it cannot be returned in kind, it is worth the money to repay.
Where the parties are jointly obliged to refund, the refund must be made at the same time, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
3. The aggrieved party shall be compensated due to breach of obligations of the other party.
4. The settlement of the consequences of the cancellation of the contract relating to personal rights shall comply with this Code and other relevant law provisions.
5. In case of canceling the contract without grounds specified in Articles 423, 424, 425 and 426 of this Code, the cancellation of the contract is determined as the violating party to perform its
obligations and responsibilities to comply with its obligations under the provisions of this Code, other relevant laws.

Section 502. Original section/article: 428. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of performance of contracts 
1. A party has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of a contract without any compensation for damage when a party violates its obligations seriously if so agreed by the parties or so provided by law.
2. A party terminating unilaterally the performance of a contract must notify the other party immediately of its termination of the contract and must compensate if the failure to notify causes damage.
3. Where the performance of a contract is terminated unilaterally, it shall terminate from the time when the other party is notified of the termination. In such case, the parties are not required to continue to perform their obligations, except for agreement on fines for violations, compensation for damage and settlement of disputes. A party which has already performed its obligation may demand the other party to make payment for the performed obligation.
4. The aggrieved party shall receive a compensation for damage caused by the improper performance of obligation by the violating party.
5. If a contract is terminated unilaterally without any basis prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the party terminating unilaterally the performance of the contract shall be deemed to be the violating party and must perform civil liability as prescribed in this Code and relevant laws.

Section 503. Original section/article: 429. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitation period for initiating legal action with respect to contracts 
The limitation period for initiating legal action to request a court to resolve a dispute relating to a contract is three years from the date on which the party entitled to request knows or should know that their lawful rights and interests are infringed. Chapter XVI 
COMMON CONTRACTS

Section 504. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
SALE CONTRACTS OF PROPERTY

Section 505. Original section/article: 430. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sale contract of property 
Sale contract means an agreement between parties whereby a seller is obligated to transfer the ownership rights of property to the purchaser and the purchaser is obligated to make a payment to the seller.
Sale contracts of houses or sale contracts of houses for other purposes shall comply with this Code, the Law on Housing and relevant laws.

Section 506. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of sale contracts 
1. Each property prescribed in this Code may be the subject matter of a sale contract. If a property is banned or restricted from transfer as prescribed by laws, it shall become a subject matter of a sale contract if it complies with the regulations of such laws.
2. The property is under ownership of the seller and the seller has the right to sell it.

Section 507. Original section/article: 432. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quality of objects for sale 
1. The quality of an object for sale and purchase shall be as agreed by the parties.
2. Where the quality of an object has been proclaimed or is provided by a competent authority, the quality of the object agreed by the parties shall not be lower than the quality proclaimed standard or the stipulations of the competent authority.
3. Where parties have not agreed on or agree unclearly on the quality of the object for sale, its quality shall conform to requirements pertaining to quality of the object proclaimed or prescribed by a competent authority or by industry standards.
If there is no quality standard, regulations of a competent authority and industry standard in terms of an object for sale, its quality shall be determined according to normal standards or separate standards in conformity with the purposes of entering into contract and as prescribed in the Law on consumers’ right protection.

Section 508. Original section/article: 433. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Price and method of payment 
1. Price shall be as agreed by the parties or as determined by a third person at the request of the parties. With respect to property in a transaction for which a competent authority has provided price and method of payment, the parties shall reach an agreement in accordance with such regulations.
2. Where parties reach no agreement or reach an agreement with unclear terms about price and method of payment, the price shall be determined according to the market price and the method of payment shall be determined according to the customary practice at the time and place of entering into the contract.

Section 509. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time limits for performance of sale contracts 
1. The time limit for performance of a sale contract shall be as agreed by the parties. The seller must deliver the property to the purchaser at the agreed time. The seller may only deliver the property prior to the time limit with the consent of the purchaser.
2. Where the parties have not agreed on a time limit for delivery of the property, the purchaser has the right to demand, at any time, the seller to deliver the property and the seller also has the right to demand, at any time, the purchaser to accept the property, but the parties must give an advanced reasonable notice to each other.
3. The purchaser shall make the payment according to the agreed time. Where the parties have no agreement or have an unclear agreement on the time-limit for payment, the purchaser must pay immediately upon receipt of the property or documents proving the ownership of the property.

Section 510. Original section/article: 435. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Place for delivery of property 
The place for delivery of the property shall be as agreed by the parties. If there is no agreement, Clause 2 of

Section 511. Original section/article: 277. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall apply.

Section 512. Original section/article: 436. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Method for delivery of property 
1. Property shall be delivered by the method as agreed by the parties. If there is no agreement on the method for delivery of the property, the property shall be delivered at one time directly to the purchaser.
2. If the parties agreed that the seller shall deliver property to the purchaser many times, but the seller violates obligation of delivery in a certain time, the purchaser may cancel the part of contract related to such violation and claim compensation.

Section 513. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability in respect of delivery of objects in incorrect quantities 
1. Where a seller delivers objects in a quantity which is more than that agreed, the purchaser has the right to accept or not to accept the excess. If it accepts the excess, payment shall be made in accordance with the agreement on the excess.
2. Where a seller delivers objects in a quantity which is less than that agreed, the purchaser has one of the following rights:
a) Accept the amount delivered and set a time-limit for the seller to deliver the amount outstanding;
b) Accept the amount delivered and demand compensation for damage;
c) Cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage if the violation prevents the purchaser from achieving the purposes of enter into the contract.

Section 514. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability in respect of delivery of incomplete integrated objects 
1. Where an integrated object is delivered incomplete, thereby rendering the object unusable, the purchaser has one of the following rights:
a) Accept the object and demand the seller to deliver the remaining parts, demand compensation for damage, and postpone payment in respect of the parts received until the missing parts are delivered;
b) Cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.
2. Where a purchaser has paid for, but not yet accepted, the delivery of an incomplete integrated object, the purchaser shall be paid interest on the amount pre-paid as agreed by the parties provided it does not exceed the interest rate prescribed in Clause 1

Section 515. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the parties do not agree the interest rate, Clause 2

Section 516. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall apply and the purchaser may demand the seller to compensate for damage due to the delivery of the incomplete integrated object from the time when the contract is required to be performed to the time when the complete integrated object is delivered.

Section 517. Original section/article: 439. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability in respect of delivery of objects of incorrect type Where an object delivered is of an incorrect type, the purchaser has one of the following rights:
1. Accept the object and pay the agreed price;
2. Demand delivery of an object of the correct type and compensation for damage;
3. c) Cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage if the delivery of incorrect type prevents the purchaser from achieving the purposes of enter into the contract.
With regard to an object including many types, if the seller fails to deliver it in conformity with the agreement, the purchaser may cancel the part of contract related to such object and claim compensation.

Section 518. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to make payment 
1. A purchaser must pay the full price at the agreed place and time.
2. If the parties only agree on time limit for delivery of object, the time limit for payment shall be determined equivalent to the time limit for delivery of object. If the parties do not agree on time limit for delivery of object and payment, the purchaser must make payment upon the receipt of the object.
3. If the purchaser fails to make payment, he/she/it must pay interest on the late payment as prescribed in

Section 519. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transfer of risks 
1. The seller shall bear all risks of the property until the property is delivered to the purchaser, the purchaser shall bear all risks of the property from the time of acceptance of the property, unless otherwise agreed or prescribed by law.
2. Where the law requires that ownership rights with respect to property which is the subject matter of a contract for sale and purchase must be registered, the seller bear all risks until the completion of the registration procedures and the purchaser bear all risks from the completion of the registration procedures, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 520. Original section/article: 442. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transport costs and costs related to transfer of ownership rights 
1. Transport costs and costs related to transfer of ownership rights shall be agreed by the parties, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
2. Where the parties do not reach an agreement or reach an unclear agreement on transport costs and costs related to transfer of ownership rights, those costs shall be determined according to the costs proclaimed or prescribed by a competent authority or industry standards.
3. If there is no basis prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article, the transport costs and costs related to transfer of ownership rights shall be determined according to normal standards or separate standards in conformity with the purposes of entering into contract.
4. Where the parties have not agreed on and the law does not provide transport costs and costs related to transfer of ownership rights, the seller shall be liable for the costs of transportation to the place of delivery of the property and the costs related to the transfer of the ownership rights.

Section 521. Original section/article: 443. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to provide information and instructions for use 
A seller has the obligation to provide a purchaser with necessary information on the property for sale and instructions on the use of the property. If the seller fails to perform this obligation, the purchaser has the right to require the seller to perform such obligation within a reasonable time limit and, if the seller still fails to perform such obligation that prevents the purchaser from achieving the purposes of entering into the contract, the purchaser has the right to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 522. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Assurances as to ownership rights of purchasers with respect to purchased property 
1. A seller has the obligation to assure that the ownership rights with respect to the property sold to a purchaser are not disputed by a third person.
2. Where ownership rights with respect to property are disputed by a third person, the seller must support the purchaser in protecting the interests of the purchaser. If a third person has the
ownership rights with respect to all or part of the property for sale and purchase, the purchaser has the right to cancel the contract and require the seller to compensate for damage.
3. Where a purchaser knows or should know that property for sale and purchase is under the ownership of a third person but, nevertheless, purchases the property, the purchaser must return the property to the owner and does not have the right to demand compensation for damage.

Section 523. Original section/article: 445. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Assurances as to quality of objects for sale 
1. A seller must assure the utility value or the characteristics of the object for sale and purchase. If, after having purchased an object, a purchaser discovers defects which cause the object to lose its value or diminish its utility value, the purchaser must notify the seller immediately of such defects and has the right to require the seller to repair or replace the defective object with another object, to reduce its price and to compensate for damage, unless otherwise agreed.
2. A seller must assure that an object for sale corresponds to descriptions on any package, to any trademark or to any sample selected by the purchaser.
3. A seller shall not be liable for any defect of an object in the following cases:
a) Where the purchaser knew or should have known of the defect at the time of purchase;
b) Where the object was sold at an auction or a second-hand shop;
c) Where the purchaser was at fault for causing the defect.

Section 524. Original section/article: 446. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Warranty obligation 
If agreed by parties or provided by law, a seller has the obligation to provide a warranty for the object for sale and purchase for a certain period, hereinafter referred to as the warranty period.
The warranty period shall be calculated from the time when the purchaser has the obligation to accept the object.

Section 525. Original section/article: 447. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to claim on warranty 
If a purchaser discovers a defect in a purchased object during the warranty period, it has the right to require the seller to repair the object free of charge, or reduce its price or replace it with another object, or it has the right to return the object in exchange for a refund.

Section 526. Original section/article: 448. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Repairs of objects during warranty periods 
1. A seller must repair a defective object and assure that it satisfies the quality standards or characteristics as undertaken.
2. A seller shall pay the costs for repairing a defective object and for transporting it from the place of residence or head office of the purchaser to the place of repair and vice versa.
3. A purchaser has the right to require the seller to complete the repairs within a time limit agreed by the parties or within a reasonable time. If the seller is not able to make or complete the repairs within such time, the purchaser has the right to demand a price reduction or replacement of the defective object with another object, or it has the right to return the object in exchange for a refund.

Section 527. Original section/article: 449. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage during warranty periods 
1. In addition to demanding the performance of warranty obligations, a purchaser has the right to require the seller to compensate for damage caused during the warranty period due to technical defects of the object.
2. A seller shall not be liable to compensate for damage if it is able to prove that the damage was caused due to the fault of the purchaser. The seller shall be entitled to a reduction in the amount of compensation for the damage where the purchaser has failed to take all necessary measures available to it to mitigate the damage.

Section 528. Original section/article: 450. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sale of property rights 
1. Where property rights are sold, a seller must deliver the relevant documents and complete the procedures for transferring the ownership rights to the purchaser and the purchaser must pay the seller.
2. Where property rights are the right to demand payment of a debt and the seller has guaranteed the ability to pay of the debtor, the seller must be jointly liable for payment if the debt falls due and the debtor fails to pay.
3. The time when ownership rights with respect to property rights are transferred is the time when a purchaser receives documents evidencing the ownership rights with respect to the property rights, or the time when the transfer of the ownership rights is registered if so provided by law.

Section 529. Original section/article: 451. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Auctions 
Property may be sold at an auction as required by the owner or as provided by law. A sale by auction of multiple ownership property must have the consent of all owners, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
The auction must be conducted in conformity of principles of objective, public and transparent, assurance of lawful rights and interests of the participants and in accordance with law on auction.

Section 530. Original section/article: 452. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Purchases after trial use 
1. Parties may agree on the trial use of purchased property by the purchaser for a period, hereinafter referred to as the trial use period. During the trial use period, the purchaser may inform the seller whether or not the purchaser wishes to make the purchase. If the purchaser fails to inform the seller prior to the expiry of the trial use period, the purchaser shall be deemed to have accepted the purchase on the terms agreed prior to the property being received for trial use.
If the parties do not reach an agreement and reach an unclear agreement on the trial use period, such period shall be determined according to the customary practice of the transactions with the same subject matter.
2. During the trial use period, property shall remain under the ownership of the seller. The seller shall bear all risks of the property, unless otherwise agreed. During the trial use period, the seller may not sell, give, lease, exchange, mortgage or pledge the property until the purchaser informs the seller whether or not it wishes to make the purchase.
3. Where a prospective purchaser informs the seller that it does not wish to make the purchase, the prospective purchaser must return the property to the seller and must compensate the seller if the prospective purchaser loses or damages the trial property. The prospective purchaser shall not
be liable for normal wear and tear caused by the trial use and shall not have to return any yield derived from the trial use.

Section 531. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Purchases by deferred payment or payment in instalments 
1. Parties may agree that the purchaser may purchase by deferred payment or payment in instalments of the purchase price within a time limit after delivery of the purchased property. The seller has title retention of the property sold until the purchaser has paid the purchase price in full, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Contracts for purchase by deferred payment or payment in instalments shall be made in writing. The purchaser may use the property purchased by deferred payment or payment in instalments and bear all risks during the period of use, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 532. Original section/article: 454. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Buy-back of property sold 
1. A seller and purchaser of property may agree that the seller has the right to buy-back the property within a period of time following the sale (hereinafter referred to as the buy-back period).
The buy-back period for property shall be as agreed by the parties but shall not exceed one year in respect of moveable property, and five years in respect of immoveable property, from the time of delivery of the property, unless otherwise prescribed by law. During this period, the seller may buy back the property at any time provided that reasonable prior notice is given to the purchaser. The buy-back price shall be the market price at the time when and place where the buy-back occurs, unless otherwise agreed.
2. During the buy-back period, a purchaser may not sell, exchange, give, lease, mortgage or pledge the property, and shall bear all risks with respect to the property, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 533. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY

Section 534. Original section/article: 455. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for exchange of property 
1. Contract for the exchange of property means an agreement between parties whereby they deliver property, and transfer the ownership rights thereto, to each other.
2. A contract for the exchange of property must be made in writing, and must be notarized, certified or registered if so provided by law.
3. Where one party exchanges with another party property which it does not own or property in respect of which it has no authorization from the owner, the other party may cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.
4. Each party shall be deemed to be the seller of the property delivered to the other party and the purchaser of the property delivered to it. The provisions on contracts for sale and purchase in articles 430 to 439 inclusive and articles 449 to 454 inclusive of this Code shall also apply to contracts for the exchange of property.

Section 535. Original section/article: 456. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Settlement of differences in value 
Where exchanged property differs in value, the parties must settle that difference between themselves, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 536. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR GIFTS OF PROPERTY

Section 537. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for gifts of property 
Contract for a gift of property means an agreement between parties whereby the giver delivers its property and transfers its ownership rights to the recipient without requiring compensation and the recipient agrees to accept the gift.

Section 538. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Gifts of moveable property 
1. A contract for a gift of moveable property shall take effect when the recipient accepts the property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the law requires the ownership rights with respect to such moveable property to be registered, the contract shall take effect from the time of registration.

Section 539. Original section/article: 459. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Gifts of immoveable property 
1. A gift of immoveable property must be recorded in writing and notarized or certified, and must be registered if the law on immoveable property requires registration of ownership.
2. A contract for a gift of immoveable property shall take effect from the time of registration. In the case of immoveable property for which no registration of ownership rights is required, the gift contract shall take effect from the time when the property is delivered.

Section 540. Original section/article: 460. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability in respect of intentional gift of property not under one's ownership 
Where a giver intentionally gives property which is not under its ownership and the recipient does not know or is not able to know, such giver must reimburse the recipient for expenses incurred by the recipient in increasing the value of the property at such time as it is reclaimed by the owner.

Section 541. Original section/article: 461. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Disclosure of defects in gifts 
A giver has the obligation to notify the recipient of any defects in a gift. If the giver knows about defects in a gift but fails to provide notice thereof, the giver must be liable to compensate for damage caused to the recipient; but if the giver does not know about defects in a gift, the giver shall not be liable to compensate for damage.

Section 542. Original section/article: 462. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Conditional gifts of property 
1. A giver may require a recipient to perform one or several civil obligations prior to or after the giving of a gift. The conditions for giving a gift must not contravene the law or social morals.
2. Where a recipient performs an obligation required to be performed as a condition to the giving of a gift and the giver fails to deliver the gift, the giver must pay for the obligation already performed by the recipient.
3. Where a recipient fails to perform an obligation required to be performed after the giving of a gift, the giver may reclaim the gift and demand compensation for damage.

Section 543. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR LOAN OF PROPERTY

Section 544. Original section/article: 463. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for loan of property 
Contract for the loan of property means an agreement between parties whereby a lender delivers property to a borrower. When the loan falls due, the borrower must repay the lender property of the same type in accordance with the correct quantity and quality, and must pay interest if so agreed or so provided by law.

Section 545. Original section/article: 464. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ownership rights with respect to property lent 
A borrower shall become the owner of borrowed property from the time of delivery of the property.

Section 546. Original section/article: 465. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of lenders 
1. Deliver the property to the borrower in full, strictly in accordance with the quality and quantity, and at the time and place, agreed.
2. Compensate the borrower for any damage where the lender knows that the property is not of the agreed quality but fails to notify the borrower, unless the borrower accepts the property with knowledge that the property is not of the agreed quality.
3. Do not demand the borrower to return the property prior to the due date, except in the cases provided in

Section 547. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code or relevant laws.

Section 548. Original section/article: 466. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of borrowers to repay loans 
1. Where the property lent is a sum of money, the borrower must repay the lender the loan in full when due. If the property is an object, the borrower must deliver to the lender an object of the same type, quantity and quality, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a borrower is not able to deliver an object, it may, with the consent of the lender, repay the value of the borrowed object, in cash, as at the time and place of delivery.
3. The place for repayment of a loan shall be the place of residence or head office of the lender, unless otherwise agreed.
4. If a borrower fails to repay all or any instalment of an interest-free loan, in whole or in part, when payment falls due, the borrower must, if the parties so agree, pay interest on the overdue amount from the due date until the date on which payment is made, at the basic interest rate prescribed in Clause 2

Section 549. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.
5. If a borrower fails to repay, in whole or in part, a loan with interest, the borrower must pay:
a) Interest on the principal as agreed in proportion to the overdue loan term and interest at the rate prescribed in Clause 2

Section 550. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
in case of late payment;
b) Overdue interest on the principal equals one hundred and fifty (150) per cent of the interest rate in proportion to the late payment period, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 551. Original section/article: 467. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Use of borrowed property 
Parties may agree that borrowed property may only be used for the agreed purpose of the loan. The lender may check the use of the property and may demand its early return if, despite warning, the borrower continues to use the property contrary to the agreed purpose.

Section 552. Original section/article: 478. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Interest rates 1. The rate of interest for a loan shall be as agreed by the parties.
The rate of interest for a loan agreed by the parties may not exceed 20% per year, unless otherwise prescribed by law. According to actual conditions and at the proposal of the Government, the Standing Committee of National Assembly shall adjust the above interest and send report to the National Assembly at the latest session.
If the agreed interest exceeds the maximum interest prescribed in this Clause, the agreed interest shall become invalid.
2. Where parties agree that interest will be payable but fail to specify the interest rate, or where there is a dispute as to the interest rate, the interest rate for the duration of the loan shall equal 50% of the maximum interest prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article at the repayment time.

Section 553. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of contracts for loans without fixed term 
1. With respect to a contract for an interest-free loan without a fixed term, the lender may reclaim the property, and the borrower may repay the debt, at any time provided that each party gives reasonable prior notice to the other party, unless otherwise agreed.
2. With respect to a contract for a loan with interest without a fixed term, the lender may reclaim the property at any time, subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the borrower, and shall be paid interest until the time when the property is returned. The borrower may also return the property at any time, subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the lender, in which case the borrower shall pay interest only up to the date on which repayment is made.

Section 554. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of contracts for fixed term loans 
1. With respect to a contract for a fixed term interest-free loan, the borrower may return the property at any time, subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the lender. The lender may reclaim the property prior to the due date, subject to the consent of the borrower.
2. With respect to a contract for a fixed term loan with interest, the borrower may return the property prior to the due date, but must pay interest for the entire term, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 555. Original section/article: 471. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
"Họ, hụi, biêu, phường" 
1. "Họ, hụi, biêu, phường" (hereinafter referred to as "ho") means a form of transaction regarding property in accordance with customary practice on the basis of an agreement reached by a group of people who assemble together and jointly determine the number of people, the term, the amount of money or other property, the form of contribution and payment of "ho", and the rights and obligations of the members of the group.
2. "Ho" is aimed at mutual assistance of citizens and shall be implemented in accordance with law.
3. If "ho" is organized with interest, it shall comply with this Code.
4. It shall be strictly prohibited to organize "ho" in the form of lending at high interest rates.

Section 556. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR LEASE OF PROPERTY 
Sub-

Section 557. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
GENERAL PROVISIONS ON CONTRACTS FOR LEASE OF PROPERTY

Section 558. Original section/article: 472. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for lease of property 
Contract for lease of property means an agreement between parties whereby a lessor delivers property to a lessee for use during a fixed term and the lessee is required to pay rent.
Lease contracts of houses or lease contracts of houses for other purposes shall comply with this Code, the Law on Housing and relevant laws.

Section 559. Original section/article: 473. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rent 
1. Rent for a lease of property shall be as agreed by the parties or determined by a third party at the request of the parties, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
2. Where parties reach no agreement or reach an agreement with unclear terms about the rent, it shall be determined according to the market price at the time and place of entering into the contract.

Section 560. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lease term 
1. The term of a lease shall be as agreed by the parties. If there is no agreement, the term of the lease shall be determined according to the purpose of the lease.
2. Where parties have not agreed on the term of a lease or where the term of a lease is not able to be determined according to the purpose of the lease, the lease shall terminate when the lessee has achieved the purpose of the lease.

Section 561. Original section/article: 475. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sub-leases A lessee may sub-lease leased property with the consent of the lessor.

Section 562. Original section/article: 476. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Delivery of leased property 
1. A lessor must deliver property to the lessee strictly in accordance with the agreed quantity, quality, type and condition and at the agreed place and time, and must provide information necessary for use of the property.
2. Where a lessor is late in delivering property, the lessee may extend the time for the delivery of the property or may cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage. If the leased property is not of the quality agreed, the lessee has the right to require the lessor to repair the property or reduce the rent, or to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 563. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to assure utility value of leased property 
1. A lessor must assure that leased property is in the condition agreed and is suitable for the purpose of the lease contract for the entire term of the lease. The lessor must repair any damage to or defect in the leased property, with the exception of minor damage which the lessee must repair in accordance with customary practice.
2. Where the utility value of leased property decreases otherwise than due to the fault of the lessor, the lessee has the right to demand the lessor:
a) Repair the property;
b) Reduce the rent;
c) Replace the property or, if the leased property is beyond repair and the purpose of the lease is not able to be achieved as a result or if the property has defects which the lessee did not know of, the lessee may terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
3. Where a lessee demands repair but the lessor fails to repair in time or at all, provided that the lessee informs the lessor, the lessee has the right to repair personally the leased property and has the right to require the lessor to reimburse the costs of repair.

Section 564. Original section/article: 478. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to assure right of lessees to use property 
1. A lessor must assure the right of a lessee to uninterfered use of the property.
2. In the event of a dispute as to the ownership rights with respect to leased property, which interferes with use of that property by the lessee, the lessee has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 565. Original section/article: 479. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to take care of leased property 
1. A lessee shall take care of leased property as if it were its own and shall carry out minor repairs and maintenance. If the lessee causes any loss of or damage to the property, it must compensate the lessor.
The lessee shall not be liable for normal wear and tear due to the use of the leased property.
2. A lessee may, with the consent of the lessor, carry out repairs and improvements to leased property which increase its value and may require reimbursement from the lessor for reasonable costs incurred.

Section 566. Original section/article: 480. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to use leased property strictly in accordance with utility and purpose 1. A lessee must use leased property strictly in accordance with its utility and the agreed purpose.
2. Where a lessee fails to use leased property strictly in accordance with its utility and purpose, the lessor has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and to demand compensation for damage.

Section 567. Original section/article: 481. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of rent 
1. A lessee must pay rent in full and on time as agreed. If there is no agreement on the time for payment of rent, the time shall be determined in accordance with the customary practice at the place of payment. If it is not possible to determine the time of payment in accordance with such customary practice, the lessee must make payment when the lessee returns the leased property.
2. Where the parties have agreed on payment of rent in instalments, if the lessee fails to make payment for three consecutive instalments, the lessor has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the lease contract, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 568. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Return of leased property 
1. A lessee must return leased property in the same condition in which it was received, normal wear and tear excepted, or in the condition agreed. If the value of the leased property has decreased in comparison with its condition at the time it was received, the lessor has the right to demand compensation for any damage, normal wear and tear excepted.
2. Where leased property is moveable property, the place for returning the leased property shall be the place of residence or head office of the lessor, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Where leased property is livestock, the lessee must return both the leased livestock and any offspring born during the term of the lease, unless otherwise agreed. The lessor must reimburse the lessee for expenses incurred in caring for the offspring.
4. Where a lessee is late in returning leased property, the lessor has the right to require the lessee to return the leased property and to pay rent for the period of delay and the lessee must compensate for damage. The lessee must pay a penalty for the late return of the leased property if so agreed.
5. The lessee must bear the risk in relation to the leased property during the period of delay.
Sub-

Section 569. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR "THUE KHOAN" OF PROPERTY

Section 570. Original section/article: 483. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for "thue khoan" of property 
Contract for "thue khoan" of property means an agreement between parties whereby a "thue khoan" lessor delivers the property to a "thue khoan" lessee for the exploitation of its utility and for the enjoyment of the yield and income derived from such property and the lessee has the obligation to pay rent.

Section 571. Original section/article: 484. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of contracts for "thue khoan" of property 
The subject matter of a contract for "thue khoan" may be land, forest, and water surfaces which have not been exploited, livestock, production and business facilities, and other means of production together with the equipment required to exploit the utility of such property and to enjoy the benefits and income derived therefrom, unless otherwise provided by law.

Section 572. Original section/article: 485. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Terms of "thue khoan" 
The term of a "thue khoan" shall be agreed by parties. If the parties do not reach an agreement and reach an unclear agreement on the term of “thue khoan”, such period shall be determined according to the production or business cycle appropriate to the nature of the subject matter of the "thue khoan".

Section 573. Original section/article: 486. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rent in respect of "thue khoan" 
Rent in respect of a "thue khoan" shall be as agreed by the parties. If a "thue khoan" is awarded by tender, the rent in respect of such "thue khoan" shall be determined in the bidding process.

Section 574. Original section/article: 487. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Delivery of "thue khoan" property 
Upon delivery of "thue khoan" property, parties must record their assessment of the condition and value of the property.
If the parties are not able to determine the value, a third person shall be invited to determine the value. Such determination shall be made in writing.

Section 575. Original section/article: 488. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of "thue khoan" rent and method of payment 1. "Thue khoan" rent may be paid in kind or money, or by performance of acts.
2. A "thue khoan" lessee must pay "thue khoan" rent in full even where the lessee does not exploit the utility of the "thue khoan" property.
3. When entering into a contract for "thue khoan", parties may agree on conditions for a reduction in rent. If at least one third of the benefits or income is lost due to an event of force majeure, a "thue khoan" lessee may demand a reduction of or exemption from rent, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where a "thue khoan" lessee must pay in kind according to the season or cycle in the exploitation of the utility of the "thue khoan" property, payment must be made at the end of such season or cycle, unless otherwise agreed.
5. Where a "thue khoan" lessee is required to perform an act, the "thue khoan" lessee must perform that particular act.
6. Repayment term of “thue khoan” shall be agreed by the parties. If the parties have no agreement, the lessee has to pay on the last day of each month; in case the “thue khoan” follows the business cycle, the payment must be made at the end of the business cycle at the latest.

Section 576. Original section/article: 489. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Exploitation of "thue khoan" property 
A "thue khoan" lessee must exploit "thue khoan" property strictly in accordance with the agreed purpose and must inform the "thue khoan" lessor periodically of its condition and its exploitation. If the "thue khoan" lessor demands or requires information at any other time, the "thue khoan" lessee must provide such information promptly. If the "thue khoan" lessee does not exploit the "thue khoan" property strictly in accordance with the agreed purpose, the "thue khoan" lessor has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 577. Original section/article: 490. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Taking care, maintenance and disposal of "thue khoan" property 
1. During the period of exploitation of the "thue khoan" property, the "thue khoan" lessee must take care of and preserve the "thue khoan" property and any related equipment at its own expense, unless otherwise agreed. If the "thue khoan" lessee loses or damages the "thue khoan" property or causes any loss or reduction in its value, the "thue khoan" lessee must compensate for damage. The "thue khoan" lessee shall not be liable for normal wear and tear due to the use of the "thue khoan" property.
2. A "thue khoan" lessee may replace or improve "thue khoan" property if the parties so agree, but must preserve its value.
A "thue khoan" lessor must reimburse a "thue khoan" lessee for the reasonable expenses incurred in replacing or improving the "thue khoan" property as agreed.
3. A "thue khoan" lessee may not sub-lease "thue khoan" property without the consent of the "thue khoan" lessor.

Section 578. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Enjoyment of benefits and liability for damage with respect to "thue khoan" livestock 
During the term of a "thue khoan" of livestock, the "thue khoan" lessee shall be entitled to enjoy half of the number of offspring born and shall be liable for half of any damage of the "thue khoan" livestock caused by an event of force majeure, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 579. Original section/article: 492. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of performance of contracts for "thue khoan" 
1. Where a party terminates unilaterally the performance of a "thue khoan" contract, that party must give reasonable prior notice to the other party. If the "thue khoan" is based on a season or cycle of exploitation, the period of prior notice must conform to such season or cycle.
2. Where a "thue khoan" lessee breaches an obligation and the exploitation of the "thue khoan" property is the sole means of livelihood of the lessee and continuation of the "thue khoan" would not seriously affect the interests of the "thue khoan" lessor, the "thue khoan" lessor may not terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract. In such case, the "thue khoan" lessee must undertake to the "thue khoan" lessor not to commit further breaches of the contract.

Section 580. Original section/article: 493. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Return of "thue khoan" property 
Upon termination of a "thue khoan" contract, the "thue khoan" lessee must return the "thue khoan" property in a condition which takes into account the agreed depreciation. If the "thue khoan" lessee has caused any reduction in the value of the "thue khoan" property, the "thue khoan" lessee must compensate for damage.

Section 581. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR BORROWING PROPERTY

Section 582. Original section/article: 494. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for borrowing property 
Contract for borrowing property means an agreement between parties whereby a lender delivers property to a borrower for use free of charge for a period of time and the borrower returns the property at the end of the period of time or when the purpose of the borrowing has been achieved.

Section 583. Original section/article: 495. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of contracts for borrowing property Any non-consumable object may be the subject matter of a contract for borrowing property.

Section 584. Original section/article: 496. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of borrowers of property 
1. Take care of and preserve the borrowed property and not to change the condition thereof at the volition of the borrower. The borrower must repair any normal damage to the property.
2. Do not on-lend the property to any other person without the consent of the lender.
3. Return the borrowed property on the due date. If there is no agreement on the time for returning the property, the borrower must return the property immediately after the purpose of the borrowing has been achieved.
4. Compensate for damage where the borrower causes damage to or loss of the borrowed property.
5. The borrower must bear the risk in relation to the borrowed property during the period of late return.

Section 585. Original section/article: 497. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of borrowers of property 1. Use the borrowed property strictly in accordance with its utility and agreed purpose.
2. Require the lender to reimburse reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out repairs or improvements to the borrowed property which increase its value if so agreed.
3. Do not bear liability for normal wear and tear of the borrowed property.

Section 586. Original section/article: 498. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of lenders of property 1. Provide necessary information on the use of the property and its defects, if any.
2. Reimburse the borrower for expenses incurred in carrying out repairs or improvements to the borrowed property which increase its value if so agreed.
3. Where the lender knows but fails to notify the borrower of a defect in the property which results in damage to the borrower, to compensate the borrower for such damage, except where the borrower knows or should know of such defect.

Section 587. Original section/article: 499. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of lenders of property 
1. Reclaim the property immediately after the borrower has achieved its purpose where there is no agreement on the borrowing period. If the lender suddenly and urgently needs to use the borrowed property, the lender may reclaim it upon giving reasonable prior notice to the borrower, even if the borrower has not yet achieved its purpose.
2. Reclaim the property where the borrower fails to use it strictly in accordance with the agreed purpose, utility, or method or where the borrower on-lends the property without the consent of the lender.
3. Demand compensation for damage to the property caused by the borrower.

Section 588. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS OF LAND USE RIGHTS

Section 589. Original section/article: 500. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contract of land use rights 
The contract of land use rights means the agreement between the parties that the land user convert, transfer, lease, sublease, donate, mortgage and contribute land use rights as capital or exercise other rights to the other party as prescribed in the Law on land; and the other party shall exercise rights and perform obligations according to the contract to the land user.

Section 590. Original section/article: 501. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of contract of land use rights 
1. General provisions on contracts and the content of common contracts related in this Code shall also apply to contracts on land use rights, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. Contents of the contract of land use rights are not contrary to the provisions of the purpose of use, the duration of land use, zoning, land use planning and the rights and obligations stipulated by law on land and other provisions of relevant laws.

Section 591. Original section/article: 502. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Forms and procedures for performing contract of land use rights 
1. Contracts relating to land use rights must be made in writing in the form consistent with the provisions of this Code, the law on land and other provisions of relevant laws.
2. The performance of the contract for the land use rights must follow the procedures prescribed by the law of the land and other provisions of relevant laws.

Section 592. Original section/article: 503. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effect of the transfer of land use rights 
The transfer of land use rights shall be effect from the date of registration under the provisions of the law on land.

Section 593. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
COOPERATION CONTRACT

Section 594. Original section/article: 504. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cooperation contract 
1. A cooperation contract means an agreement between natural and/or juridical persons regarding the property contribution, effort to perform certain jobs, the same benefit and mutual responsibility.
2. Each cooperation contract must be made in writing.

Section 595. Original section/article: 505. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of cooperation contract Each cooperation contract shall contain the major contents below:
1. Purpose and duration of cooperation;
2. Full name and place of residence of natural person; name and headquarters of juridical person;
3. Contributed property (if any);
4. Contributed labor (if any);
5. Method of distributing the yield and/or income;
6. Rights and obligations of cooperative members;
7. Rights and obligations of representatives (if any);
8. Conditions for participation and withdrawal from the cooperation contract (if any);
9. Conditions for termination of cooperation.

Section 596. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Common property of the cooperative members 
1. Property contributed and created by the members and other property as prescribed by law shall be considered as common property part of the cooperative members.
Where there is agreement on the contribution that members fail to contribute money on schedule, they must pay interest on the unpaid portion of the money under the provisions of

Section 597. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code and must pay damages.
2. The disposition of the property is land use rights, housing, factories, other production materials must have a written agreement of all the members; the disposal of other property shall be decided by the representatives of the members, unless otherwise agreed.
3. The common property may not be divided before the termination of the cooperation contract, unless otherwise agreed by all members.
The division of common property shall not change or terminate the rights and obligations established before the division time.

Section 598. Original section/article: 507. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of cooperative members 1. Enjoy the yield and income gained from cooperation activities.
2. Participate in decisions involving issues of performance of cooperation contract and co- operation monitoring.
3. Compensate for damages to other cooperative members caused by their faults.
4. Perform other rights and obligations under the contract.

Section 599. Original section/article: 508. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Establishing and performing civil transactions 
1. Where the cooperative members appoint representatives, they shall establish and perform civil transactions.
2. Where the cooperative members do not appoint any representative, they shall jointly establish and perform civil transactions, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Civil transactions that are be established and performed by entities specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article shall give rise to rights and obligations of all cooperative members.

Section 600. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Civil liability of cooperative members 
The cooperative members are responsible for general civil liability by their common property; if the common property is insufficient to fulfill the obligation, the members shall be held responsible by their own property corresponding to its contribution, unless otherwise specified by the cooperation contract or otherwise prescribed by law.

Section 601. Original section/article: 510. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Withdrawal from the cooperation contract 
1. A member has the right to withdraw from the cooperation contract in any of the following cases:
a) Satisfy the conditions specified in the cooperation contract;
b) There is a good reason and the consent of more than half the total cooperative members.
2. The member withdrawing from the cooperation contract has the right to reclaim contributed property, divided part of the property in the common property and must pay all obligations under the agreement. Where the division of property in kind affects the cooperation activities, the property are worth the money to divide.
The withdrawal of a member from the cooperation contract does not terminate his/her rights and obligations that are established or performed before the withdrawal time.
3. The withdrawal of a member from the contract in a case other than Clause 1 of this Article shall be defined as the breach of contract and should execute the civil liability as prescribed in this Code and other relevant laws.

Section 602. Original section/article: 511. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Joining cooperation contract 
Unless the cooperation contract otherwise specifies, a natural or juridical person shall become a new member of the contract with the consent of more than half the total cooperative members.

Section 603. Original section/article: 512. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of cooperation contract 1. A cooperation contract shall terminate in any of the following cases:
a) As agreed by cooperative members;
b) The time limit mentioned in the cooperation contract has expired;
c) The purpose of cooperation has been achieved;
d) Pursuant to a decision of a competent authority;
dd) Other cases prescribed in this Code or other relevant laws.
2. Upon the termination of the cooperation contract, the debts arising from the contract must be paid; if the common property is insufficient to repay it to private assets of cooperative members to pay under the provisions of

Section 604. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Where the debt was repaid and the common property still exists, it shall be divided by the cooperative members in proportion to the contribution of each person, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 605. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES

Section 606. Original section/article: 513. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for services 
Contract for services means an agreement between parties whereby a service provider performs an act for a client which pays a fee for that act.

Section 607. Original section/article: 514. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of contracts for services 
The subject matter of a contract for services must be an act which is capable of being performed, which is not prohibited by law and which does not contravene social morals.

Section 608. Original section/article: 515. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of clients 
1. Supply the service provider with the information, documentation and facilities necessary for the performance of the act if so agreed or required for the performance of the act.
2. Pay a fee to the service provider as agreed.

Section 609. Original section/article: 516. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of clients 
1. Require the service provider to perform the act strictly in accordance with the agreement on quality, quantity, time, location and other matters.
2. Where a service provider commits a serious breach of its obligations, the client may terminate unilaterally performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 610. Original section/article: 517. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of service providers 
1. Perform the act strictly in accordance with the agreement on quality, quantity, time, location and other matters.
2. Do not assign the act to another person for performance on its behalf without the consent of the client.
3. Take care of, and to return to the client after completion of the act, the documents and facilities provided to it.
4. Notify the client promptly of any inadequacy in the information or documents and any failure of the facilities to satisfy the quality required for the completion of the act.
5. Keep confidential any information of which it has had knowledge during the period of providing the service as agreed or as provided by law.
6. Compensate the client for damage where the service provider causes any loss of or damage to the documents or facilities supplied or discloses confidential information.

Section 611. Original section/article: 518. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of service providers 1. Require the client to provide information, documents and facilities.
2. Amend the terms of service in the interests of the client without necessarily asking for the opinion of the client where waiting for such opinion would cause damage to the client provided that the service provider promptly informs the client thereof.
3. Require the client to pay the fee.

Section 612. Original section/article: 519. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of fees 1. A client must pay the agreed fee for services.
2. If, upon entering a contract, there is no agreement on the service fee rate or on the method for fixing the fee for services and there are no other instructions on fees, the service fee rate shall be fixed on the basis of market fees for services of the same type at the time when and place where the contract was entered into.
3. A client must pay the fee for services at the place where the service is provided and at the time of its completion, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where the services provided fail to meet the terms of the agreement or the act is not completed in time, the client has the right to reduce the fee for services and demand compensation for damage.

Section 613. Original section/article: 520. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of performance of contracts for services 
1. Where the continued provision of services does not benefit the client, the client has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract but must provide reasonable prior notice to the service provider, in which case the client must pay a fee according to the portion of services already provided and [must] compensate for damage.
2. Where the client fails to perform its obligations or performs its obligations not as agreed, the service provider has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 614. Original section/article: 521. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Continuation of contracts for services 
If, after the expiry of the agreed period for the provision of services, the act has not been completed and the service provider continues its performance and the client is aware of this but does not object, the performance of the contract for services shall automatically be deemed to continue in accordance with the agreed terms until the act is completed.

Section 615. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
TRANSPORT CONTRACTS 
Sub-

Section 616. Original section/article: 522. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for transport of passengers 
Contract for transport of passengers means an agreement between parties whereby a carrier transports passengers and luggage to an agreed destination and the passengers must pay transport fares.

Section 617. Original section/article: 523. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Formalities for contracts for transport of passengers 1. A contract for transport of passengers may be made in writing or orally.
2. A ticket is evidence of the entry into a contract for transport of passengers by the parties.

Section 618. Original section/article: 524. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of carriers 
1. Carry the passengers safely from the place of departure to the agreed destination on time, in a civilized and courteous manner, by the means agreed and on the agreed route; to ensure that there are sufficient seats for the passengers and that the transport capacity of the carrier is not exceeded.
2. Purchase civil liability insurance for the passengers, as provided by law.
3. Ensure that the departure time is adhered to as notified or agreed.
4. Carry and return the luggage to the passenger or person entitled to receive the luggage in accordance with the agreed destination, time and route.
5. Refund the transport fare to any passenger as agreed or as prescribed by law.

Section 619. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of carriers 
1. Require the passengers to pay in full the passenger transport fares and fares for the transport of personal luggage in excess of the prescribed limit.
2. Refuse to carry a passenger in the following cases:
a) Where the passenger fails to follow the regulations of the carrier, where the acts of the passenger disturb public order, obstruct the work of the carrier, or pose a threat to life, health or property of other persons, or where a passenger commits other acts which make it impossible to ensure safety during the journey. In this case, the passenger shall not receive a refund of the passenger transport fare, and must pay a fine if so provided by the transport regulations;
b) Where the health of the passenger is such that it is obvious to the carrier that the transport [of such person] will endanger the passenger or other persons during the journey;
c) In order to prevent the spread of contagious diseases.

Section 620. Original section/article: 526. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of passengers 
1. Pay in full the passenger transport fare and fares for the transport of luggage in excess of the prescribed limit, and to take care of his or her hand-luggage.
2. Present at the place of departure at the agreed time.
3. Respect and comply strictly with the regulations of the carrier and all other regulations ensuring traffic safety.

Section 621. Original section/article: 527. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of passengers 
1. Request to be transported by the agreed means of transport, in the class commensurate with the value of the ticket and in accordance with the agreed route.
2. Be exempt from transport fares for check-in luggage and hand-luggage within the limits as agreed or as provided by law.
3. Demand reimbursement of expenses incurred or compensation for any damage if the carrier is at fault in failing to transport according to the agreed time schedule and destination.
4. Receive a refund of all or part of the transport fare in the cases provided for in Points b and c Clauses 2 of

Section 622. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code and in other cases as agreed or as provided by law.
5. Receive the luggage at the agreed destination in accordance with the agreed time and route.
6. Request temporary interruption of the journey for the duration and in accordance with the procedures provided by law.

Section 623. Original section/article: 528. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability to compensate for damage 
1. In case of loss of life of or damage to the health or luggage of a passenger, the carrier must compensate for any damage in accordance with law.
2. Unless otherwise provided by law, a carrier shall not be liable to compensate for loss of life of or damage to the health and luggage of a passenger in the case where such loss or damage is entirely due to the fault of the passenger, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
3. A passenger which breaches the agreed terms for transport or the transport regulations, thereby causing damage to the carrier or a third person, must compensate.

Section 624. Original section/article: 529. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of contracts for transport of passengers 
1. A carrier has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of a contract in the cases provided in Clause 2 of

Section 625. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. A passenger has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of a contract where the carrier breaches the obligations provided in Clauses 1, 3 and 4 of

Section 626. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR TRANSPORT OF PROPERTY

Section 627. Original section/article: 530. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for transport of property 
Contract for transport of property means an agreement between parties whereby a carrier has the obligation to transport property to an agreed destination and to deliver it to the authorized recipient, and the customer has the obligation to pay the freight charges.

Section 628. Original section/article: 531. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Formalities for contracts for transport of property 1. A contract for transport of property may be entered into orally or in writing or a specific act.
2. A bill of lading or equivalent source document of transport shall be evidence of the entering into of a contract by the parties.

Section 629. Original section/article: 532. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Delivery of property to carriers 
1. A customer has the obligation to deliver property to a carrier at the agreed time and place and pack the property in accordance with the agreed specifications. The customer must bear the costs f loading the property onto and unloading the property from the means of transport, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a customer is late in delivering property to the agreed place, the customer must reimburse the carrier for the costs associated with the delay and pay the freight charges for transporting the property to the place agreed in the contract, or must pay a penalty for breach of the contract.
If the carrier is late in accepting the property at the agreed at the agreed place, it shall be liable for the costs incurred due to such late acceptance.

Section 630. Original section/article: 533. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Freight charges 
1. The rate of freight charges shall be as agreed by the parties. If the law regulates freight charges, charges shall apply as regulated.
2. A customer must pay freight charges in full after the property is loaded onto the means of transport, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 631. Original section/article: 534. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of carriers 1. Transport the property in its entirety and safely to the agreed destination at the agreed time.
2. Deliver the property to the person entitled to receive it.
3. Bear all costs related to the transport of the property, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Purchase civil liability insurance as required by law.
5. Compensate the customer for damage where the loss of or damage to the property is caused by the fault of the carrier, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 632. Original section/article: 535. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of carriers 
1. Check the authenticity of the property and the bill of lading or equivalent source document of transport.
2. Refuse to transport property which is different from that agreed in the contract.
3. Demand the full and timely payment of the freight charges by the customer.
4. Refuse to transport property if the carrier knows or should know that the transacting of such property is prohibited or the property is of a dangerous or toxic nature.

Section 633. Original section/article: 536. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of customers 
1. Pay in full the freight charges to the carrier, at the time and by the method of payment as agreed.
2. Provide necessary information about the transported property to ensure its safety.
3. Take care of the property during transport if so agreed. Where the customer takes care of the property and it is lost or damaged, the customer shall not be entitled to compensation.

Section 634. Original section/article: 537. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of customers 1. Demand the carrier to transport the property to the agreed destination at the agreed time.
2. Receive directly the property which has been transported, or appoint a third person to receive it.

Section 635. Original section/article: 538. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Delivery of property to recipients 
1. A recipient of property may be the customer or a third person appointed by the customer to receive the property.
2. A carrier must deliver the property to a recipient in full, at the time and place and by the method as agreed.
3. Where property has been delivered to the point of delivery on time but there is no recipient of the property, the carrier may deposit such property at a place of bailment and must notify immediately the customer or the recipient of the property. The customer or recipient of the property must bear the reasonable expenses incurred in relation to the bailment of the property.
The obligation to deliver property shall be completed upon bailment of the property in compliance with the agreed terms and when the customer or the recipient of the property has been notified about the bailment.

Section 636. Original section/article: 539. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of recipients of property 
1. Produce to the carrier the bill of lading or other equivalent source document of transport, and to receive the property at the agreed time and place.
2. Bear the costs for loading and unloading the transported property, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.
3. Reimburse the carrier for reasonable costs incurred due to late acceptance of the property.
4. Notify the customer of the acceptance of the property and provide other necessary information required by the customer if the recipient is a third party appointed by the customer.

Section 637. Original section/article: 540. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of recipients of property 
1. Verify the quantity and quality of the delivered property.
2. Accept the delivered property.
3. Require the carrier to reimburse reasonable costs incurred due to any delay by the carrier in delivering the property.
4. Require the carrier compensate for loss of or damage to the property.

Section 638. Original section/article: 541. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability to compensate for damage 
1. Where a carrier is responsible for the loss of or damage to property, the carrier must compensate the customer for damage, except in the case provided in Clause 3 of

Section 639. Original section/article: 536. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. A customer must compensate a carrier and any third parties for damage caused by the transport of dangerous or toxic property which is not safely packaged or the safety of which is not otherwise ensured.
3. A carrier shall not be liable to compensate for damage in the event of force majeure causing loss or deterioration of or damage to the property during transport, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law.

Section 640. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
PROCESSING CONTRACTS

Section 641. Original section/article: 542. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Processing contracts 
Processing contract means an agreement between parties whereby a processor carries out work to create products at the request of a supplier, and the supplier receives the products and pays fees.

Section 642. Original section/article: 543. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Subject matter of processing contracts 
The subject matter of a processing contract shall be items which are specified by samples, the standard of which is agreed by the parties or provided by law.

Section 643. Original section/article: 544. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of suppliers 
1. Supply raw materials to the processor strictly in accordance with the agreed quantity, quality, time and place, unless otherwise agreed by the parties; and to provide necessary documents relating to the processing.
2. Provide the processor with instructions as to how to perform the contract.
3. Pay agreed fees.

Section 644. Original section/article: 545. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of suppliers 
1. Accept the processed products in accordance with the agreed quantity, quality, manner, time and place.
2. Terminate unilaterally performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage if the processor commits a serious breach of the contract.
3. Where the products are not of the agreed quality and the supplier accepts the products but requests repairs, but the processor is not able to perform the repairs within the agreed time, the supplier has the right to cancel the contract and demand compensation for damage.

Section 645. Original section/article: 546. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of processors 
1. Take care of the raw materials supplied by the supplier.
2. Notify the supplier to replace any raw materials supplied which are not of the agreed quality; to refuse to perform the processing if the use of the raw materials may create products which pose a danger to society.
3. Deliver the products to the supplier strictly in accordance with the agreed quantity, quality, method, time and place.
4. Keep confidential all information relating to the processing and the products.
5. Bear liability for the quality of the products, unless the lack of quality is due to the raw materials supplied by the supplier or due to the unreasonable instructions of the supplier.
6. Return any leftover raw materials to the supplier after completing performance of the contract.

Section 646. Original section/article: 547. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of processors 
1. Require the supplier to deliver the raw materials strictly in accordance with the agreed quality, quantity, time and place.
2. Refuse to comply with unreasonable instructions of the supplier where the processor is of the view that [compliance with] such instructions could decrease the quality of the products provided that the processor immediately informs the supplier.
3. Require the supplier to make payment of the fees in full, at the time and by the method as agreed.

Section 647. Original section/article: 548. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Liability for risk 
Unless otherwise agreed, the owner of the raw materials shall bear all risks with respect to such materials and the products processed therefrom until the products are delivered to the supplier.
If the supplier is late in accepting the products, it shall bear all risks during the period of delayed acceptance, including where the products are processed from the raw materials of the processor, unless otherwise agreed.
If the processor delays delivery of the products and the delay damages the processed property, the processor must compensate for damage suffered by the supplier.

Section 648. Original section/article: 549. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Delivery and acceptance of processed products A processor must deliver, and the supplier must accept, products at the agreed time and place.

Section 649. Original section/article: 550. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Late delivery and acceptance of processed products 
1. Where the processor is late in delivering processed products, the supplier may extend the time of delivery. If, upon expiry of such extension, the processor still has not delivered the products, the supplier has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and demand compensation for damage.
2. Where the supplier is late in accepting the products, the processor may deposit the products at a place of bailment and must notify the supplier immediately. The obligation to deliver the products shall be fulfilled when the agreed terms are satisfied and the supplier has been notified. The supplier must bear all costs incurred for bailment.

Section 650. Original section/article: 551. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of performance of processing contracts 
1. Unless otherwise agreed or otherwise provided by law, each party has the right to terminate unilaterally the performance of a processing contract if continued performance would not benefit that party but must give reasonable prior notice to the other party.
2. If the supplier terminates unilaterally the performance of the contract, the supplier must pay fees for the work already performed, unless otherwise agreed. If the processor terminates unilaterally the performance of the contract, it shall not be paid fees, unless otherwise agreed.
3. A party which unilaterally terminates the performance of a contract and thereby causes damage to the other party must compensate.

Section 651. Original section/article: 552. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of fees 
1. Unless otherwise agreed, the supplier must pay fees in full at the time of accepting the products.
2. If there is no agreement on the rate of fees, the applicable rate shall be the average rate charged for the production of products of the same type at the place of processing at the time of payment.
3. If the products fail to meet the agreed quality due to the raw materials supplied or the unreasonable instructions provided by the supplier, the supplier does not have the right to reduce the fees.

Section 652. Original section/article: 553. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Dealing with leftover raw materials 
Unless otherwise agreed, the processor must return leftover raw materials to the supplier upon termination of the processing contract.

Section 653. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
CONTRACTS FOR BAILMENT OF PROPERTY

Section 654. Original section/article: 554. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts for bailment of property 
Contract for bailment of property means an agreement between parties whereby a bailee accepts the property of a bailor for safekeeping, for return to the bailor upon expiry of the duration of the contract, and the bailor must pay a fee to the bailee, except where the bailment is free of charge.

Section 655. Original section/article: 555. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of bailors of property 
1. Inform the bailee of the condition of the property and the appropriate safekeeping measures upon delivery of the property; if the bailor fails to inform the bailee, and the property is destroyed or damaged as a result of inappropriate safekeeping, the bailor must be liable itself for such destruction of or damage to the bailed property and must compensate for other damage caused.
2. Pay the bailment fees in full, at the time and by the method as agreed.

Section 656. Original section/article: 556. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of bailors of property 
1. Reclaim the property at any time subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the bailee if the bailment contract does not specify a period of time.
2. Demand compensation for loss of or damage to the bailed property caused by the bailee, except in the case of an event of force majeure.

Section 657. Original section/article: 557. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of bailees of property 
1. Take care of the property as agreed and return it to the bailor in the same condition in which the bailee received it.
2. Change the method for safekeeping of the property only where such change is necessary for better safekeeping of such property and provided that the bailor is notified immediately of the change.
3. Notify promptly the bailor in writing and request the bailor to advise, within a certain period of time, a solution where, due to its nature, the bailed property is in danger of being damaged or destroyed. If the bailor fails to reply within such period of time, the bailee has the right to take all necessary measures to take care of the property and to require the bailee to reimburse the costs incurred.
4. Compensate for damage where the bailee causes any loss of or damage to the bailed property, except in the case of an event of force majeure.

Section 658. Original section/article: 558. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of bailees of property 1. Require the bailor to pay the agreed bailment fees.
2. Require the bailor to pay the reasonable costs of taking care of the property where the bailment is free of charge.
3. Request, at any time, the bailor to take back the property subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the bailor where the bailment is for an indefinite period of time.
4. Sell the property in the interests of the bailor where the bailed property is in danger of being damaged or destroyed, inform the bailor thereof and pay the proceeds of the sale to the bailor after deduction of reasonable expenses incurred for the sale of the property.

Section 659. Original section/article: 559. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Return of bailed property 
1. A bailee must return the same property that was received, including any benefits derived therefrom, unless otherwise agreed.
The bailed property shall be returned to the bailor at the place where it was delivered. If the bailor wishes to have the property returned at another place, the bailor must bear the transport costs to such place, unless otherwise agreed.
2. A bailee must return property at the agreed time and only has the right to request the bailor take back the property prior to such time for a legitimate reason.

Section 660. Original section/article: 560. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Late taking back of bailed property 
If a bailee is late in returning the property, the bailee may not require the bailor to pay bailment fees and costs for taking care of the property incurred from the agreed time for return of the property to the time it is actually returned and bears the risk with respect to the property during such period.
Where a bailor is late in taking back property, the bailor must pay all costs for taking care of the property and the bailment fees to the bailee during the period for which the bailor is late.

Section 661. Original section/article: 561. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of fees 
1. A bailor must pay bailment fees in full when taking back the bailed property, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the parties have no agreement on the rate of bailment fees, the applicable rate shall be the average rate of bailment fees at the time when and place where the bailment fee is paid.
3. Notwithstanding that the bailor takes back the property prior to the agreed time, the bailor must pay the bailment fees in full and must pay the necessary costs which the bailee incurs due to the return of the property by the bailee prior to the agreed time, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where a bailee requests a bailor to take back the property prior to the agreed time, the bailee shall not be entitled to be paid bailment fees and must compensate for any damage to the bailor, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 662. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
AUTHORIZATION CONTRACTS

Section 663. Original section/article: 562. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Authorization contracts 
Authorization contract means an agreement between parties whereby an attorney has the obligation to perform an act in the name of a principal. The principal shall only be required to pay remuneration if so agreed or so provided by law.

Section 664. Original section/article: 563. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Duration of authorization 
The duration of the authorization shall be as agreed by the parties or as provided by law. If there is no agreement and the duration is not provided by law, the authorization contract shall be effective for one year from the date on which the authorization is made.

Section 665. Original section/article: 564. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sub-authorization 
1. An attorney may only sub-authorize its authorization to a third person in any of the following cases:
a) With the consent of the principal;
b) Due to force majeure events that if the sub-authorization does not apply, the purposes of entering into a civil transaction for the interests of the principal is unachievable.
2. A sub-authorization shall not exceed the scope of the original authorization.
3. The formalities of the sub-authorization contract must conform to the formalities of the original authorization contract.

Section 666. Original section/article: 565. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of attorneys 
1. Perform the act in accordance with the authorization and inform the principal of such performance.
2. Notify any third parties involved in the performance of the authorized act of the duration and scope of the authorization and of any amendments of or additions to such scope.
3. Take care of and preserve documents and facilities provided for the performance of the authorized act.
4. Keep all information confidential which the attorney comes to know during the performance of the authorized act.
5. Return to the principal any property received and benefits derived during the performance of the authorized act as agreed or as provided by law.
6. Compensate for damage caused by a breach of any of the obligations provided in this Article.

Section 667. Original section/article: 566. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of attorneys 
1. Require the principal to provide the information, documentation and facilities necessary for performance of the authorized act.
2. Receive remuneration and be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of the authorized act.

Section 668. Original section/article: 567. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of principals 
1. Provide the information, documentation and facilities necessary for the attorney to perform the authorized act.
2. Be liable for undertakings given by the attorney within the scope of the authorization.
3. Reimburse the attorney for reasonable expenses incurred by the attorney in the performance of the authorized act and pay any agreed remuneration to the attorney.

Section 669. Original section/article: 568. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of principals 1. Require the attorney to report fully on the performance of the authorized act.
2. Require the attorney to return any property and benefits derived from the performance of the authorized act, unless otherwise agreed.
3. Compensate for damage caused by a breach of any of the obligations provided in

Section 670. Original section/article: 569. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral termination of performance of authorization contracts 
1. Where an authorization involves payment of remuneration, the principal has the right, at any time, to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract but must remunerate the attorney in proportion to the acts performed and compensate for damage. If the authorization does not involve payment of remuneration, the principal has the right, at any time, to terminate the performance of the contract, subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the attorney.
A principal must notify any third person in writing of the termination of the performance of the contract by the principal. If the principal fails to do so, any contract with any such third person shall remain in effect, unless such third person knows or should know of the termination of the performance of the contract.
2. Where an authorization does not involve payment of remuneration, the attorney has the right, at any time, to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract, subject to giving reasonable prior notice to the principal. If the authorization involves payment of remuneration, the attorney has the right, at any time, to terminate unilaterally the performance of the contract and must compensate for any damage caused to the principal. Chapter XVII 
PROMISES OF REWARDS AND PRIZE COMPETITIONS

Section 671. Original section/article: 570. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Promises of rewards 
1. A person having made a public promise of a reward must pay that reward to a person having performed the act requested by the promissor.
2. An act for which a reward is promised must be specific and capable of being performed and must not be prohibited by law nor contravene social morals.

Section 672. Original section/article: 571. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Withdrawal of promises of rewards 
A promissor may withdraw its promise of a reward at any time prior to the commencement of the performance of the act. A withdrawal of a promise of reward must be made in the same manner and by the same media in which the promise of reward was announced.

Section 673. Original section/article: 572. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Payment of rewards 
1. Where a person performs an act for which a reward is promised, that person shall be given the reward upon completion of the act.
2. Where several persons perform an act for which a reward is promised, concurrently but independently, the person having first completed the act shall be given the reward.
3. Where more than one person complete, at the same time, an act for which a reward is promised, the reward shall be distributed in equal shares amongst such persons.
4. Where more than one person co-operate with each other to perform, at the request of the promissor, an act for which a reward is promised, each person shall receive a share of the reward in proportion to its contribution.

Section 674. Original section/article: 573. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Prize competitions 
1. Organization of a cultural, artistic, sports, scientific, technical or other competition shall not violate prohibitions of law and contravene social morals.
2. A person organizing the competition must announce publicly the terms of participation, the scale of marks, the prizes and the value of each prize.
Any alteration of the terms of participation must be announced in the manner in which the competition was announced, within a reasonable period of time prior to the competition being conducted.
3. A winner of a prize has the right to demand the organizer of a competition give a prize of the value announced. Chapter XVIII 
PERFORMANCE OF ACTS WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION

Section 675. Original section/article: 574. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of acts without authorization 
Performance of acts without authorization means the voluntary performance of acts by a person being under no obligation to perform the act, solely for the benefit of a beneficiary, without the knowledge of the beneficiary, or with its knowledge but without the beneficiary raising any objection.

Section 676. Original section/article: 575. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to perform acts without authorization 
1. A person performing an act without authorization has the obligation to do so in accordance with its capabilities and conditions.
2. A person performing an act without authorization must do so as if such person were performing such act for its own benefit. If such person knows or is able to guess the wishes of the beneficiary, such person must perform the act in accordance with such wishes.
3. A person performing an act without authorization must, if requested, notify the beneficiary of the progress and results of the performance, unless the beneficiary already knows such information or the person performing the act without authorization does not know the place of residence of the beneficiary.
4. If a beneficiary being natural person dies or a beneficiary being juridical person ceases to exist, the person performing an act without authorization must continue to perform the act until the heir or representative of the beneficiary takes over the act.
5. Where a person performing an act without authorization has legitimate reasons for not being able to continue performance, such person must notify the beneficiary, or the representative or close relatives of the beneficiary, or may ask another person to perform the act on its behalf.

Section 677. Original section/article: 576. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation of beneficiary to pay for acts performed without authorization 
1. A beneficiary of an act performed without authorization must accept the results of the act when it is handed over to the beneficiary by the person having performed the act and [must] reimburse that person for reasonable expenses incurred in performing such act, even where the performance has failed to achieve the results desired by the beneficiary.
2. If a person has performed an act properly for the benefit of a beneficiary, the beneficiary must remunerate the person having performed the act, unless the person having performed the act refuses to accept the remuneration.

Section 678. Original section/article: 577. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to compensate for damage 
1. If a person performing an act without authorization intentionally causes damage to the beneficiary while performing the act, such person must compensate for such damage.
2. If a person performing an act without authorization unintentionally causes damage to the beneficiary while performing the act, the compensation by such person may be reduced on the basis of the circumstances in which the act was performed.

Section 679. Original section/article: 578. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Termination of performance of acts without authorization The performance of acts without authorization shall terminate in the following cases:
1. The beneficiary so requests;
2. The beneficiary, or its heir or representative, takes over the acts;
3. The person performing the acts without authorization becomes not able to continue performance in accordance with Clause 5

Section 680. Original section/article: 575. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
4. The person performing the acts without authorization dies with regard to natural person or juridical person ceases to exist with regard to juridical person. Chapter XIX 
OBLIGATIONS TO RETURN PROPERTY DUE TO UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR USE OF PROPERTY OR DERIVING OF BENEFITS FROM PROPERTY

Section 681. Original section/article: 579. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to return property 
1. A person possessing or using property of another unlawfully must return the property to its owners and holders of other property-related rights. If the lawful owners and holders of other property-related rights of such property are not able to be found, the property must be delivered to a competent authority, except in the case provided in

Section 682. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. A person deriving benefits from property unlawfully, thereby causing damage to another person, must give such benefits to such other person, except in the case provided in

Section 683. Original section/article: 580. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Property to be returned 1. A person possessing or using property unlawfully must return the whole of such property.
2. Where the property to be returned is a distinctive object, that particular object must be returned and, if such distinctive object is lost or damaged, monetary compensation must be paid, unless otherwise agreed.
3. If the property to be returned is a fungible object which has been lost or damaged, an object of the same type must be returned or monetary compensation must be paid, unless otherwise agreed.
4. A person deriving benefits from property unlawfully must return, either in kind or in money, the benefits derived from the property to any person having suffered loss of such benefits.

Section 684. Original section/article: 581. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to return yield and income 
1. A person possessing or using property, or a person deriving benefits from property, unlawfully and not in good faith, must return yield and income derived from the property during the time of unlawful possession or use of, or deriving benefits from, the property.
2. A person possessing or using property, or a person deriving benefits from property, unlawfully but in good faith, must return any yield and income derived from the property from the time when it knew or should have known that the possession or use of, or deriving benefits from, the property was unlawful, except in the case provided in

Section 685. Original section/article: 582. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Right to require third person to return property 
Where a person unlawfully possessing or using property transfers the property to a third person, the third person must return the property if so demanded by the owner and holders of other property-related rights, unless this Code contains some other provision. If money or compensation has been paid for such property, the third person has the right to demand the party having transferred the property to the third person to compensate for damage.

Section 686. Original section/article: 583. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to pay 
Upon taking back property, an owner or holders of other property-related rights or an aggrieved person must reimburse the person having taken possession of or used the property, or having derived benefits from the property, unlawfully but in good faith, for the necessary expenses such person has incurred for taking care of the property and increasing its value.
Chapter XX 
LIABILITY FOR COMPENSATION FOR NON-CONTRACTUAL DAMAGES

Section 687. Original section/article: 584. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Grounds giving rise to liability to compensate for damage 
1. A person intentionally or unintentionally harming the life, health, honor, dignity, reputation, property, or other legal rights or interests of a person, must compensate for such damage, unless otherwise prescribed in this Code or relevant laws.
2. The person who causes damage shall be discharged from liability for compensation in case where the damage incurs due to force majeure events or at entire fault of the aggrieved person, unless otherwise agreed or otherwise prescribed by law.
3. If a property causes damage, its owner or possessor must compensate for the damage, except for the damage prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.

Section 688. Original section/article: 585. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Principles of compensation for damage 
1. Actual damage must be compensated in full and promptly. Unless otherwise provided by law, parties may agree on the amount of compensation; on the form of compensation, which may be money, in kind or the performance of an act; lump sum payment or payment in instalments; and on the method of compensation.
2. The compensation payable by a person having caused damage may be reduced if such damage was caused unintentionally and is very large in comparison to the financial positions of such person.
3. If the amount of compensation determined becomes unrealistic, the aggrieved person, or the person having caused damage, has the right to request a court or another competent authority to change the amount of compensation.
4. If the aggrieved party is partly his/her fault for causing the damage, that part of damage shall not be compensated.
5. The party having rights and interests infringed shall not be compensated if such damage incurs due to his/her failure to adopt necessary measures to prevent the damage.

Section 689. Original section/article: 586. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Capacity of individuals for liability to compensate for damage 
1. A person of eighteen years of age or older who causes damage shall be personally liable to compensate.
2. Where a minor under fifteen years of age causes damage, his or her parents, if any, must compensate for the total damage. If the parents have insufficient property to compensate and the minor who has caused the damage has property of his or her own, such property shall be used to satisfy the outstanding amount of compensation, except in the cases provided in

Section 690. Original section/article: 599. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Where a person who is between fifteen and eighteen years of age causes damage, such person must compensate by recourse to his or her own property. If such person has insufficient property to compensate, the parents of such person must satisfy the outstanding amount by recourse to their own property.
3. Where a minor, legally incapacitated person, person with limited cognition and behavior control, causes damage but there is a guardian, such guardian shall use the property of the ward to compensate. If the ward has no or insufficient property to compensate, the guardian must do so by recourse to the property of the guardian. If the guardian is able to prove that he or she was not at fault with respect to guardianship, the guardian shall not be required to use its property to compensate.

Section 691. Original section/article: 587. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused jointly by several persons 
Where several persons jointly cause damage, they must jointly compensate any aggrieved person. Liability for compensation of each person having jointly caused the damage shall be determined in proportion to the degree of fault of each person. If the degree of fault is not able to be determined, the persons causing damage must compensate in equal shares.

Section 692. Original section/article: 588. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitation period for initiating legal action claiming compensation for damage 
The limitation period for initiating legal action claiming compensation for damage shall be two years from the date on which the legal rights or interests of an individual, legal entity or other subject were infringed.

Section 693. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGE

Section 694. Original section/article: 589. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Damage caused by infringement of property In the event of an infringement of property, the compensable damage shall comprise:
1. Property which was lost, destroyed or damaged;
2. Interests associated with the use and exploitation of the property was lost or declined;
3. Reasonable costs for the prevention, mitigation and remedy of the damage;
4. Other damage as prescribed by law.

Section 695. Original section/article: 590. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Damage caused by harm to health 1. Damage caused by harm to health shall comprise:
a) Reasonable costs for treating, nursing and rehabilitating health, and functional losses and impairment of the aggrieved person;
b) Loss of or reduction in the actual income of the aggrieved person. If the actual income of the aggrieved person is irregular and is not able to be determined, the average income level for the type of work performed by the aggrieved person shall be applied;
c) Reasonable costs and actual income losses of the carers of the aggrieved person during the period of treatment. If the aggrieved person loses his or her ability to work and requires a permanent carer, the damage shall also include reasonable costs for taking care of the aggrieved person.
d) Other damage as prescribed by law.
2. A person causing harm to the health of another person must pay the items provided in Clause 1 of this Article together with an amount of money as compensation for mental suffering of the aggrieved person. The amount of compensation for mental suffering shall be as agreed by the parties; if the parties are not able to agree, the maximum sum shall not exceed fifty-month base salary prescribed by the State.

Section 696. Original section/article: 591. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Damage caused by harm to life 1. Damage caused by harm to life shall comprise:
a) Damage caused by harm to life prescribed in

Section 697. Original section/article: 590. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Reasonable funeral costs;
c) Support for the dependants of the aggrieved person;
d) Other damage as prescribed by law.
2. A person causing death to another person must pay compensation for damage as provided in Clause 1 of this Article together with an amount of money as compensation for mental suffering of the closest relatives in the first line of succession to the deceased. If there are no such relatives, this sum shall be paid to the persons who were directly reared by the deceased or to the persons who directly reared the deceased. The amount of compensation for mental suffering shall be as agreed by the parties; if the parties are not able to agree, the maximum sum shall not exceed one-hundred-month base salary prescribed in by the State.

Section 698. Original section/article: 592. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Damage caused by harm to honor, dignity or reputation 1. Damage caused by harm to the honor, dignity or reputation shall comprise:
a) Reasonable costs for mitigating and remedying the damage;
b) Loss of or reduction in actual income;
c) Other damage as prescribed by law.
2. A person causing harm to the honor, dignity or reputation of another person must pay compensation for damage as provided in Clause 1 of this Article together with another amount of money as compensation for mental suffering of the aggrieved person. The amount of compensation for mental suffering shall be as agreed by the parties; if the parties are not able to agree, the maximum sum shall not exceed ten-month base salary prescribed by the State.

Section 699. Original section/article: 593. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Period of entitlement to compensation for damage caused by harm to health or resulting from loss of life 
1. Where an aggrieved person loses totally the ability to work, the aggrieved person shall receive compensation until the time of his or her death, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the aggrieved person dies, his or her dependants shall be entitled to receive support for the following durations:
a) A child of the deceased, whether living or conceived prior to his or her death, shall be entitled to compensation until the age of eighteen years, except a child between fifteen and eighteen years of age who is employed and earns sufficient income to look after himself or herself;
b) An adult who is not able to work shall be entitled to receive support until his or her death.
3. With regard to the conceived child of the deceased, the compensation shall be paid from the time he/she is born and alive.

Section 700. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGE IN A NUMBER OF SPECIFIC CASES

Section 701. Original section/article: 594. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage by persons exceeding limits of reasonable self- defense 
A person causing damage while acting in reasonable self-defense shall not be liable to compensate any aggrieved person.
A person causing damage while not acting in reasonable self-defense must compensate any aggrieved person.

Section 702. Original section/article: 595. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage by persons exceeding requirements of emergency situation 
1. A person causing damage as a result of exceeding the requirements of an emergency situation must compensate any aggrieved person for that part of the damage which resulted from exceeding the requirements of an emergency situation.
2. A person creating an emergency situation which leads to damage being caused must compensate any aggrieved person.

Section 703. Original section/article: 596. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by persons using stimulants 
1. A person who, due to the consumption of alcohol or the use of other stimulants, becomes incapable of being aware of or controlling his or her acts, thereby causing damage to another person, must compensate such person.
2. A person who intentionally causes another person to take alcohol or stimulants, thereby causing such person to become incapable of being aware of or controlling his or her acts, must compensate any person aggrieved thereby.

Section 704. Original section/article: 597. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by persons belonging to juridical persons 
A juridical person must compensate for any damage caused by any person belonging to the juridical person during the performance of duties assigned by it to such person. If a juridical person has compensated for any damage, it has the right to demand the person at fault for causing the damage to reimburse it an amount of money in accordance with law.

Section 705. Original section/article: 598. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by law enforcers 
The State must compensate for damage caused by law enforcers as prescribed in the Law on compensation liability of the State.

Section 706. Original section/article: 599. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by persons under fifteen years of age or persons having lost capacity for civil acts and under direct supervision of school, hospital or other organization 
1. Where a person under fifteen years of age causes damage during school hours, the school must compensate for the damage.
2. If a legally incapacitated person causes damage to another person while under the direct supervision of a hospital or another juridical person, such hospital or the juridical person must compensate for the damage.
3. If, in the cases provided in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the school, hospital or another juridical person proves that it was not at fault with respect to supervision, the parents or guardian of the person under fifteen years of age or of the legally incapacitated person must compensate.

Section 707. Original section/article: 600. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused workers and trainees 
A natural person or juridical person must compensate for any damage caused by any worker or trainee belonging to it during the performance by the employee or trainee of his or her assigned duties. The natural person or juridical person has the right to demand such worker or trainee reimburse it an amount of money in accordance with law.

Section 708. Original section/article: 601. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by sources of extreme danger 
1. Sources of extreme danger comprise motorized means of transport, power transmission systems, operating industrial plants, weapons, explosives, inflammable substances, toxic substances, radioactive substances, dangerous animals and other sources of extreme danger as provided by law.
An owner of a source of extreme danger must comply strictly with the regulations on taking care of, preserving, transporting and using sources of extreme danger in accordance with law.
2. An owner of a source of extreme danger must compensate for damage caused by such source. If the owner has transferred possession or use of the source of extreme danger to another person, such other person must compensate [for the damage], unless otherwise agreed.
3. An owner, or person to which an owner has transferred the possession or use, of a source of extreme danger must compensate for damage caused by such source, even where such owner or person is not at fault, except in either of the following cases:
a) The aggrieved person is entirely at fault for intentionally causing the damage;
b) The damage occurred due to an event of force majeure or in an emergency situation, unless otherwise provided by law.
4. Where a source of extreme danger is taken into possession or used unlawfully, the person possessing or using [it] unlawfully must compensate for damage.
Where an owner, or a person to which an owner has transferred possession or use, of a source of extreme danger is at fault by allowing the unlawful possession or use of the source of extreme danger, the owner, or the person to which the owner has transferred possession or use, of the source of extreme danger as the case may be must compensate jointly for the damage.

Section 709. Original section/article: 602. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by environmental pollution 
Any entity polluting the environment, thereby causing damage, must compensate in accordance with the law, including when the entity polluting the environment was not at fault.

Section 710. Original section/article: 603. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by livestock 
1. An owner of livestock must compensate for damage caused to another person by such livestock. The possessor or user of livestock must compensate during the period of possession or using, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a third person is entirely at fault in causing livestock to cause damage to another person, the third person must compensate for the damage. If both the third person and the owner are at fault, both of them must compensate jointly for the damage.
3. Where livestock which is possessed or used unlawfully causes damage, the unlawful possessor or user must compensate for the damage. When the owner, possessor or user of livestock is at fault leading the livestock is possessed or used unlawfully thereby causes damage, they must jointly compensate for damage.
4. Where livestock which is allowed to roam according to customary practice causes damage, its owner must compensate according to customary practice provided that such compensation does not contravene the law or social morals.

Section 711. Original section/article: 604. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by trees 
An owner, a possessor or a person in charge of trees must compensate for damage caused by the trees.

Section 712. Original section/article: 605. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by houses and other construction works or buildings 
An owner or a possessor of a house or another construction work, or a person to which the owner has assigned the management or use thereof, must compensate for damage if such house or construction causes damage to another person.
If the executor of the house or construction work is partly fault that such house or construction work causes damage, he/she must jointly compensate for such damage.

Section 713. Original section/article: 606. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by infringement of corpses 1. Each natural person or juridical causing damage to a corpse must compensate.
2. Damage caused by infringement of a corpse shall include reasonable costs for mitigating and remedying the damage.
3. A person causing damage to a corpse must pay an amount of money as provided in Clause 2 of this Article together with another amount of money as compensation for mental suffering of the closest relatives in the first line of succession to the deceased. If there are no such relatives, this sum shall be paid to the persons who directly reared the deceased. The amount of compensation for mental suffering shall be as agreed by the parties; if the parties are not able to agree, the maximum sum shall not exceed thirty-month base salary prescribed by the State.

Section 714. Original section/article: 607. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by infringement of graves 
1. Each natural person or juridical person causing damage to the grave of another must compensate.
2. Damage caused by infringement of a grave shall include reasonable costs for mitigating and remedying the damage.
3. A person causing damage to a grave must pay an amount of money as provided in Clause 2 of this Article together with another amount of money as compensation for mental suffering of the closest relatives in the first line of succession to the deceased. If there are no such relatives, this sum shall be paid to the persons who directly reared the deceased. The amount of compensation for mental suffering shall be as agreed by the parties; if the parties are not able to agree, the maximum sum for each damaged grave shall not exceed ten-month base salary prescribed by the State.

Section 715. Original section/article: 608. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for damage caused by infringement of consumer interests 
A natural person or juridical person carrying out production or business and failing to ensure the quality of goods, thereby causing damage to consumers, must compensate for such damage.
PART FOUR 
INHERITANCE Chapter XXI 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 716. Original section/article: 609. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of inheritance 
A natural person may make a will to dispose of his or her estate, may leave his or her property to an heir in accordance with law, or may inherit an estate left to him or her under a will or in accordance with law.
An heir not being natural person has the right to inherit estate under a will.

Section 717. Original section/article: 610. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Equality of individuals with respect to rights of inheritance 
All natural persons are equal with respect to rights to bequeath their property to others and to inherit estates under wills or in accordance with law.

Section 718. Original section/article: 611. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time and place of commencing inheritance 
1. The time of commencement of an inheritance shall be the time when the deceased dies. Where a court declares that a person is dead, the time of commencement of the inheritance shall be the date provided in Clause 2 of

Section 719. Original section/article: 81. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The place of commencement of the inheritance shall be the last place of residence of the owner of the estate. If the last place of residence is not able to be determined, the place of commencement of the inheritance shall be the place at which all or most of the estate is located.

Section 720. Original section/article: 612. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Estates 
An estate comprises property which the deceased owned and property which the deceased jointly owned with other persons.

Section 721. Original section/article: 613. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Heirs 
If an heir is an individual, such person must be alive at the time of commencement of the inheritance or, if such person is born and alive after the commencement of inheritance, must have been conceived prior to the time when the deceased dies. Where an heir under a will is a body or organization, it must be in existence at the time of commencement of the inheritance.

Section 722. Original section/article: 614. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Time when rights and obligations of heirs arise 
From the time of commencement of an inheritance, the heirs have the property rights and obligations left by the deceased.

Section 723. Original section/article: 615. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of property obligations left by deceased 
1. A person entitled to an inheritance has the responsibility to perform the property obligations within the scope of the estate left by the deceased, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where an estate has not yet been divided, the property obligations left by the deceased shall be performed by the administrator of the estate as agreed by the heirs.
3. Where an estate has already been divided, each heir shall perform those property obligations left by the deceased corresponding to, but not exceeding, that part of the estate that the heir has inherited, unless otherwise agreed.
4. Where the heir inheriting an estate under a will is not a natural person, it must perform the property obligations left by the deceased in like manner as a natural person.

Section 724. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Administrators of estates 
1. Administrator of an estate means the person who is appointed in the will or by agreement of the heirs.
2. Where a will fails to appoint, and the heirs have not yet appointed, an administrator, any person currently possessing, using or managing property within the estate at the time of the commencement of the inheritance shall continue its administration until the heirs have appointed an administrator.
3. Where an heir has not yet been determined and there is not yet an administrator of the estate as prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the estate shall be administered by a competent authority.

Section 725. Original section/article: 617. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligations of administrators of estates 
1. An administrator of an estate as provided in Clauses 1 and 3 of

Section 726. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code has the following obligations:
a) Make a list of the property within the estate and collect any property belonging to the estate of the deceased which is possessed by others, unless otherwise provided by law;
b) Take care of the estate and do not sell, exchange, give, pledge, mortgage or otherwise dispose of property within the estate without the written consent of the heirs;
c) Notify the heirs of the estate;
d) Compensate for any damage if the administrator breaches any of its obligations, thereby causing damage;
dd) Deliver back the estate at the request of the heirs.
2. A person possessing, using or managing property within an estate as provided in Clause 2 of

Section 727. Original section/article: 638. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code has the following obligations:
a) Take care of the estate and do not sell, exchange, give, pledge, mortgage or otherwise dispose of property within the estate;
b) Notify the heirs of the estate;
c) Compensate for any damage if the administrator breaches any of its obligations, thereby causing damage;
d) Deliver back the estate as agreed with the deceased in a contract or at the request of the heirs.

Section 728. Original section/article: 618. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of administrators of estates 
1. An administrator of an estate as provided in clauses 1 and 3 of

Section 729. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code has the following rights:
a) Represent the heirs in dealings with any third parties in relation to the estate of inheritance;
b) Receive remuneration as agreed with the heirs;
c) Receive payment of costs of estate preservation.
2. A person possessing, using or managing property within an estate as provided in Clause 2 of

Section 730. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code has the following rights:
a) Continue to use the estate as agreed with the deceased in a contract or with the consent of the heirs;
b) Receive remuneration as agreed with the heirs;
c) Receive payment of costs of estate preservation.
3. If the estate administrator fails to reach an agreement on the remuneration with the heirs, he/she shall be entitled to receive an appropriate remuneration.

Section 731. Original section/article: 619. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance by persons entitled to inherit each other's estate but dead at same time 
Where persons who are entitled to inherit each other's estate die at the same time or are deemed to have died at the same time because it is impossible to determine who of them died first (hereinafter referred to as simultaneous death), they do not have the right to inherit each other's estate and the estate of each of the deceased shall be inherited by their respective heirs, except in the case of inheritance pursuant to

Section 732. Original section/article: 620. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Disclaimer of inheritance 
1. An heir may disclaim an inheritance, unless such disclaimer is for the purpose of avoiding the performance of its property obligations to other persons.
2. A disclaimer of an inheritance must be made in writing. A person disclaiming must notify the other heirs and the person authorized to distribute the estate.
3. The disclaimer of an estate must be expressed before the time of inherit distribution.

Section 733. Original section/article: 621. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Persons not entitled to inherit 1. The following persons are not entitled to inherit:
a) Persons convicted of having intentionally caused the death of or harmed the health of the deceased, of having seriously mistreated or tortured the deceased, or of having harmed the honor or dignity of the deceased;
b) Persons having seriously breached their duty to support the deceased;
c) Persons convicted of having intentionally caused the death of another heir in order to obtain all or part of the entitlement of such other heir to the estate;
d) Persons deceiving, coercing or obstructing the deceased with respect to the making of the will, or forging, altering or destroying the will in order to obtain all or part of the estate contrary to the wishes of the deceased.
2. Persons provided in Clause 1 of this Article may, nevertheless, inherit the estate if the deceased was aware of such acts but, nevertheless, allowed them to inherit the estate under the will.

Section 734. Original section/article: 622. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Estates which no one inherits 
Where there is no heir under a will and at law, or where there is an heir but such heir is not entitled to inherit the estate or disclaims the inheritance of the estate, the residual estate for which there is no heir shall, after fulfillment of property obligations, belong to the State.

Section 735. Original section/article: 623. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitation periods with respect to inheritance 
1. The limitation period with respect to a claim of an heir for distribution of an estate shall be thirty years regarding immovable property or ten years regarding movable property from the time of commencement of the inheritance. Upon the expiry date of the aforesaid period, the estate shall belong to the estate administrator. In case where there is no estate administrator, the estate shall be dealt with as follows:
a) It shall belong to the person possessing it as prescribed in

Section 736. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) It shall belong the State if there is no possessor prescribed in Point a of this Clause.
2. The limitation period with respect to a claim of an heir for a declaration of right of inheritance of the requester or to disallow the claim to inheritance of another shall be ten years from the time of commencement of the inheritance.
3. The limitation period with respect to a claim for an heir to fulfill property obligations of the deceased shall be three years from the time of commencement of the inheritance. Chapter XXII 
INHERITANCE UNDER WILLS

Section 737. Original section/article: 624. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Wills 
Will means an expression of the wishes of a natural person, made in order to bequeath his or her property to others after his or her death.

Section 738. Original section/article: 625. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Testators 
1. An adult satisfying conditions prescribed in Point a Clause 2

Section 739. Original section/article: 630. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code may make a will to dispose his/her property.
2. A person who is between fifteen and eighteen years of age may make a will with the consent of his or her parents or guardian.

Section 740. Original section/article: 626. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rights of testators A testator has the following rights:
1. Appoint heirs or to deprive an heir of the right to inherit the estate;
2. Determine those parts of the estate which each heir is entitled to;
3. Reserve part of the estate as a gift or for worship purposes;
4. Designate heirs to perform obligations;
5. Appoint a custodian of the will, an administrator of the estate, and a distributor of the estate.

Section 741. Original section/article: 627. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Formalities for wills A will must be made in writing. If it is not able to be made in writing, it may be made orally.

Section 742. Original section/article: 628. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Written wills 
Written wills comprise:
1. Unwitnessed written wills;
2. Witnessed written wills;
3. Written wills which are notarized;
4. Written wills which are certified.

Section 743. Original section/article: 629. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Oral wills 
1. Where a person is likely to die due to illness or any other reason and it is not possible for him or her to make a written will, such person may make an oral will.
2. If the testator is alive and is of sound mind three months after he or she has made an oral will, such will shall automatically become invalid.

Section 744. Original section/article: 630. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lawful wills 1. A will must satisfy the following requirements in order to be lawful:
a) The testator was of sound mind when he or she made the will; and he or she was not deceived, threatened or coerced into making the will;
b) The contents of the will are not contrary to law or social morals and the will complies with legal formalities.
2. A will made by a person between fifteen and eighteen years of age must be made in writing and with the consent of the parents or guardian of such person.
3. A will made by a person who is incapacitated or illiterate must be made in writing by a witness and must be notarized or certified.
4. A written will which is not notarized or certified shall be deemed lawful only if it satisfies the requirements provided in Clause 1 of this Article.
5. An oral will shall be deemed lawful only if the testator orally expressed his or her last wishes before at least two witnesses who immediately thereafter recorded those wishes in writing and signed or fingerprinted the document. Such will must be notarized or certified within five working days of the date on which the testator orally expressed his or her last wishes.

Section 745. Original section/article: 631. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contents of written wills 1. A will must specify clearly the following:
a) The date on which the will is made;
b) The full name and place of residence of the testator;
c) The full names of the persons and the bodies or organizations entitled to inherit the estate;
d) The estate to be bequeathed and its location.
2. Apart from the contents prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the will may have other contents.
3. A will may not be written using abbreviations or other symbols. If a will consists of several pages, each page must be numbered and bear the signature or fingerprint of the testator.
Where a will has erasure or correction, the testator or the testament witness must sign beside erasing and corrected place.

Section 746. Original section/article: 632. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Witnesses to making of will Any person may act as a witness to the making of a will, except the following persons:
1. Persons who are heirs of the testator under the will or at law;
2. Persons with property rights or obligations which relate to the will;
3. Minors, legally incapacitated persons, persons with limited cognition and behavior control.

Section 747. Original section/article: 633. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unwitnessed written wills A testator must write a will by his or her own hand and must sign it.
The drawing up of a written will without witnesses must comply with

Section 748. Original section/article: 634. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Witnessed written wills 
Where a testator is not able to write a will by his or her own hand, the testator may request another person to write the will, but there must be at least two witnesses. The testator must sign or fingerprint the will in the presence of the witnesses; the witnesses shall acknowledge the signature or fingerprint of the testator and sign the will.
The will must be made in compliance with articles 631 and 632 of this Code.

Section 749. Original section/article: 635. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Wills which are notarized or certified A testator may request that the will be notarized or certified.

Section 750. Original section/article: 636. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Procedures for preparation of wills at notary office or people's committee of commune 
The preparation of a will at a notary office or the people's committee of the commune must comply with the following procedures:
1. The testator shall declare the contents of his or her will to a notary public officer or a member of the people's committee of the commune who has the authority to certify it. The notary public officer or the person having the authority to certify must record the wishes stated by the testator. The testator shall sign or fingerprint the will after acknowledging that it has been recorded accurately and that it expresses faithfully the intentions of the testator. Thereafter, the notary public officer or the member of the people's committee of the commune shall sign the will;
2. Where the testator is not able to read or hear the will or not able to sign or fingerprint it, there must be a witness who must acknowledge the will by signing it before a notary public officer or a member of the people's committee of the commune who has the authority to certify it. The notary public officer shall notarize the will, or the member of the people's committee of the commune who has the authority to certify the will shall certify it, in the presence of the testator and the witnesses.

Section 751. Original section/article: 637. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Persons not permitted to notarize or certify wills 
A notary public officer or a member of the people's committee of the commune who has authority shall not be permitted to notarize or certify a will if such person is:
1. An heir of the testator under the will or at law;
2. A person whose father, mother, wife, husband or child is an heir under the will or at law;
3. A person having property rights or obligations relating to the will.

Section 752. Original section/article: 638. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Written wills valid as though notarized or certified 
1. A written will made by a serving soldier who is not able to request a notarization or certification of his or her will provided that such will is certified by the head of his or her unit having the rank of a company commander or higher.
2. A written will made by a person travelling on a seagoing vessel or aircraft provided that the will is certified by the captain of the vessel or aircraft.
3. A written will made by a person undergoing medical treatment in a hospital or other medical establishment or sanatorium provided that the will is certified by the person in charge of such hospital or establishment or sanatorium.
4. A written will made by a person conducting surveys, explorations or research in mountainous areas, forests or offshore islands provided that the will is certified by the person in charge of the unit.
5. A written will made by a Vietnamese citizen residing abroad provided that the will is certified by a Vietnamese consular or diplomatic representative mission in that country.
6. A written will made by a person held in temporary detention, serving a prison sentence or administrative penalty, or at an educational or medical facility provided that the will is certified by the person in charge of such facility.

Section 753. Original section/article: 639. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Wills prepared by notary public officers at places of residence of testators 
1. A testator may request a notary public officer to visit his or her place of residence in order to prepare a will.
2. Such will shall be prepared in accordance with the procedures for the preparation of wills at a State notary public provided in

Section 754. Original section/article: 640. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Amendment of, addition to, replacement or revocation of wills 1. A testator may amend, add to, replace or revoke his or her will at any time.
2. If a testator adds to his or her will, the original will and the codicil shall have equal validity. If a part of the original will and the codicil conflict with each other, the codicil shall prevail.
3. Where a testator replaces a will with a new will, the previous will shall be deemed to have been revoked.

Section 755. Original section/article: 641. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Custody of wills 
1. A testator may request a notary office or another person to keep custody of the will of the testator.
2. Where a will is kept in custody by a notary office, it must be taken care of and looked after in accordance with the law on notaries.
3. An individual keeping custody of a will has the following obligations:
a) Keep the contents of the will confidential;
b) Take care of and look after the will. If the will is lost or damaged, the person must notify immediately the testator;
c) Upon the death of the testator, to deliver the will to his or her heirs or to the person authorized to announce the will. The delivery of the will must be recorded in writing and signed by the person delivering the will, and by the person receiving it, in the presence of two witnesses.

Section 756. Original section/article: 642. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Loss and damage of wills 
1. If, from the commencement of the inheritance, the will is lost or damaged to the extent that it is incapable of indicating clearly the wishes of the testator and there is no evidence of the true wishes of the testator, it shall be deemed that no will exists and inheritance at law shall apply.
2. Where the will is found prior to distribution of the estate, the estate shall be distributed according to the will.
3. Within the limitation periods for requesting estate distribution, if a will is found after the distribution of the estate, the estate shall be distributed according to the will at the request of the heir under will.

Section 757. Original section/article: 643. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal effectiveness of wills 1. A will shall become legally effective from the time of commencement of the inheritance.
2. All or part of a will shall be legally ineffective in any of the following cases:
a) An heir under the will dies prior to or at the same time as the testator dying;
b) A body or organization named as an heir no longer exists at the time of commencement of the inheritance.
Where there are several heirs under a will and one of them dies prior to or at the same time as the death of the testator or one of the bodies or organizations named as an heir under the will no longer exists at the time of commencement of the inheritance, only that part of the will which relates to the individual, body or organization no longer existing shall be legally ineffective.
3. A will shall not be legally effective if the estate left to the heirs no longer exists at the time of commencement of the inheritance. If only part of the estate left to the heirs remains, only that part of the will which relates to such part of the estate shall be legally effective.
4. Where a will contains provisions which are unlawful but such provisions do not affect the effectiveness of the remainder of the will, only such provisions shall be legally ineffective.
5. Where a person leaves behind more than one will with respect to certain property, only the most recent of such wills shall be legally effective.

Section 758. Original section/article: 644. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Heirs notwithstanding contents of wills 
1. Where a testator does not grant any of the following persons an inheritance, or grants any such person an inheritance which is less than two-thirds of the share that person would have received if the estate had been distributed according to law, such person shall be entitled to a share of the estate equivalent to two-thirds of the share that he or she would have received if the estate had been distributed in accordance with law:
a) Children who are minors, father, mother, wife or husband of the testator;
b) Children who are adults but who are incapable of working.
2. Clause 1 of this Article shall not apply to persons who have disclaimed their inheritance as prescribed in

Section 759. Original section/article: 620. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
or person who are not entitled to inherit as prescribed in Clause 1

Section 760. Original section/article: 645. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Estates used for worship purposes 
1. Where a testator designates part of his or her estate for worship purposes, such part of the estate shall not be distributed among the heirs and shall be delivered to the person appointed in the will to manage for worship purposes. If such appointee fails to implement strictly the will or the agreement of the heirs, the heirs have the right to appoint another person to manage for worship purposes.
Where the testator fails to appoint a person to manage that part of his or her estate which is designated for worship purposes, the heirs shall appoint a person to manage such part of the estate.
Where all heirs under a will have died, that part of the estate which is designated for worship purposes shall belong to the person managing that part of the estate for worship purposes provided that he or she is an heir at law.
2. Where the entire estate of the deceased is insufficient to satisfy all property obligations of the deceased, no part of the estate may be designated for worship purposes.

Section 761. Original section/article: 646. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Testamentary gifts 
1. A testator may designate part of his or her estate as a testamentary gift to another person. The testamentary gift must be expressly stated in the will.
2. The grantee of the testamentary gift must be alive at the time of commencement of the inheritance or he/she must bear and alive after the time of commencement of the inheritance he/she must be conceived before the death of the estate leaver. If the grantee of the testamentary gift is not a natural person, it must exist at the time of commencement of the inheritance.
3. The grantee of a gift shall not be required to fulfill property obligations with respect to that part of the estate granted as a gift, unless the whole estate is insufficient to satisfy all property obligations of the grantor, in which case the part of the estate granted as a gift shall also be applied towards satisfying the remainder of the obligations of the grantor.

Section 762. Original section/article: 647. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Announcement of wills 
1. Where a written will is kept by a notary office, the notary officer shall be the person announcing the will.
2. Where a testator has appointed a person to announce the will, such person shall announce the will. If the testator fails to appoint a person or has appointed a person but the appointee refuses to announce the will, the heirs shall agree on the appointment of a person to announce the will.
3. After the time of commencement of an inheritance, the person announcing the will must send copies of the will to all persons with an interest in the contents of the will.
4. A recipient of a copy of a will has the right to verify the copy against the original.
5. Where a will has been prepared in a foreign language, it must be translated into Vietnamese and notarized.

Section 763. Original section/article: 648. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Interpretation of contents of wills 
Where the contents of a will are unclear and may be interpreted in different ways, the person announcing the will and the heirs must interpret jointly the contents of the will based on the true wishes of the deceased, taking into consideration the relationship of the deceased with the heirs under the will. If such persons fail to agree on the interpretation of the contents of the will, they have the right to request a court for settlement.
Where part of the contents of a will is not able to be interpreted but the remainder of the will is not affected, only that part which is not able to be interpreted shall not be legally effective. Chapter XXIII 
INHERITANCE AT LAW

Section 764. Original section/article: 649. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance at law 
Inheritance at law means inheritance in accordance with the order of priority of inheritance and the conditions and procedures of inheritance provided by law.

Section 765. Original section/article: 650. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cases of inheritance at law 1. Inheritance at law shall apply in the following cases:
a) There is no will;
b) The will is unlawful;
c) All heirs under the will died prior to or at the same time as the testator dying, or the bodies or organizations which are entitled to inherit under the will no longer exist at the time of commencement of the inheritance;
d) The persons appointed as heirs under the will do not have the right to inherit or disclaimed the right to inherit.
2. Inheritance at law shall also apply to the following parts of an estate:
a) Parts of an estate in respect of which no disposition has been made in the will;
b) Parts of an estate related to an ineffective part of the will;
c) Parts of an estate related to heirs under the will not having the right to inherit, having disclaimed the right to inherit, or having died prior to or at the same time as the testator dying; and parts of an estate related to bodies or organizations entitled to inherit under the will but no longer existing at the time of commencement of the inheritance.

Section 766. Original section/article: 651. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Heirs at law 1. Heirs at law are categorized in the following order of priority:
a) The first level of heirs comprises: spouses, biological parents, adoptive parents, offspring and adopted children of the deceased;
b) The second level of heirs comprises: grandparents and siblings of the deceased; and biological grandchildren of the deceased;
c) The third level of heirs comprises: biological great-grandparents of the deceased, biological uncles and aunts of the deceased and biological nephews and nieces of the deceased.
2. Heirs at the same level shall be entitled to equal shares of the estate.
3. Heirs at a lower level shall be entitled to inherit where there are no heirs at a higher level because such heirs have died, or because they are not entitled to inherit, have been deprived of the right to inherit or have disclaimed the right to inherit.

Section 767. Original section/article: 652. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Succeeding heirs 
Where a child of a testator died prior to or at the same time as the testator, the grandchildren of the testator shall inherit that part of the estate which their father or mother would have been entitled to inherit had such father or mother still been alive. If the grandchildren also died prior to or at the same time as the testator, the great-grandchildren of the testator shall inherit that part of the estate which their father or mother would have been entitled to inherit had such father or mother still been alive.

Section 768. Original section/article: 653. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance relations between adopted children and their adoptive parents and biological parents 
An adopted child and his or her adoptive parents may inherit each other's estates and may also inherit in accordance with articles 651 and 652 of this Code.

Section 769. Original section/article: 654. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance relations between stepchildren and their stepparents 
If a stepchild and his or her stepparents care for and support each other as though they were biologically related, they may inherit each other's estates and may also inherit in accordance with articles 652 and 653 of this Code.

Section 770. Original section/article: 655. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance where wives and husbands have divided multiple ownership property, have applied for divorce or have remarried 
1. Where a wife and husband have divided their multiple ownership property while they are still married and one of them subsequently dies, the surviving spouse shall still be entitled to inherit the estate of the deceased.
2. Where a wife and husband have applied for but not yet obtained a legally effective divorce pursuant to a judgment or decision of a court, or they have obtained such a divorce but the judgment or decision of the court is not yet effective, and one of them dies, the surviving spouse shall, nevertheless, be entitled to inherit the estate of the deceased.
3. A person who is the wife or husband of the deceased at the time when his or her spouse dies shall be entitled to inherit the estate of the deceased even if that person subsequently remarries. Chapter XXIV 
SETTLEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF ESTATES

Section 771. Original section/article: 656. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Meeting of heirs 
1. After being notified of the commencement of an inheritance, or after a will has been announced, the heirs may meet to agree on the following matters:
a) If the testator has failed to appoint an administrator of the estate or a distributor of the estate, or has not determined the powers and obligations of such persons, the appointment of such persons and the determination of their powers and obligations, as the case may be;
b) Method of distributing the estate.
2. All agreements by the heirs must be made in writing.

Section 772. Original section/article: 657. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Distributors of estates 
1. A distributor of an estate may also be the administrator of the estate appointed in the will or by agreement of the heirs.
2. A distributor of an estate must distribute it strictly in accordance with the will or the agreement of the heirs at law.
3. A distributor of the estate may receive remuneration if so allowed by the testator in the will or if so agreed by the heirs.

Section 773. Original section/article: 658. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Order of priority of payment 
Property obligations and expenses related to an inheritance shall be paid in the following order of priority:
1. Reasonable funeral expenses in accordance with customary practice;
2. Outstanding support payments;
3. Expenditures on preservation of estate;
4. Allowances for dependants of the deceased;
5. Wages;
6. Monetary compensation for any damage;
7. Taxes and other liabilities owed to the State;
8. Other liabilities owed to other natural persons or juridical persons;
9. Fines;
10. Other expenses.

Section 774. Original section/article: 659. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Distribution of estates in accordance with wills 
1. An estate shall be distributed in accordance with the wishes of the testator. If the will fails to specify the share of each heir, the estate shall be divided equally between the persons named in the will, unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where a will provides for the distribution in kind of an estate, each of the heirs shall be entitled to receive his or her share in kind, plus the benefits and income derived therefrom, or must bear the depreciation in value of such share in kind up to the time when the estate is distributed. If the property which is the subject of a share in kind has been destroyed due to the fault of another person, the heir has the right to demand compensation for damage.
3. Where a will provides for the distribution of an estate according to certain proportions of the total value of the estate, such proportions shall be calculated on the basis of the value of the estate at the time of distribution.

Section 775. Original section/article: 660. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Distribution of estates in accordance with law 
1. If, at the time of distribution, an heir has been conceived but not yet born, a part of the estate equal to the share of another heir at the same level of heirs shall be set aside for the unborn heir. If the heir is born alive, he or she shall inherit such part of the estate. If the heir does not survive his or her birth, the other heirs at the same level of heirs shall be entitled to his or her share.
2. The heirs have the right to demand the estate to be distributed in kind. If the estate is not able to be equally distributed in kind, the heirs may agree that the property shall be valued and may agree on which heirs shall be entitled to receive which particular items of property. Failing such agreement, the assets in kind shall be sold for distribution.

Section 776. Original section/article: 661. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limited distribution of estates 
Where it was the wish of a testator, or where the heirs agree, that an estate is to be distributed only after a certain period of time, it shall be distributed only after such period of time has expired.
If there is a request to distribute an estate but such distribution will seriously and adversely affect the life of the remaining wife or husband and family, such spouse has the right to request a court to fix the share of the estate to which other heirs are entitled but not to allow distribution of the estate during a certain period of time. Such period shall not exceed three years from the date of commencement of inheritance. When such period fixed by the court has expired or such remaining spouse has remarried, the other heirs have the right to request the court to permit distribution of the estate.

Section 777. Original section/article: 662. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Distribution of estates where new heir or where right of heir to inherit has been disallowed 
1. Where a new heir appears after an estate has been distributed, the estate shall not be re- distributed in kind but the heirs which have received [a share of] the estate must pay the new heir a sum equivalent to the share of the estate of such [new heir] at the time of distribution of the estate in proportion to the [respective] share of the estate already received [by each heir], unless otherwise agreed.
2. Where the right of an heir to inherit is disallowed after an estate has been distributed, such heir must return the inheritance or pay to the other heirs a sum equivalent to the value of the inheritance received at the time of distribution of the estate, unless otherwise agreed. PART FIVE 
CIVIL RELATIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN ELEMENTS Chapter XXV 
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 778. Original section/article: 663. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope 1. This Part provides for applied law to civil relations involving foreign elements.
If any regulation of law providing for applied law to civil relations involving foreign elements complies with

Section 779. Original section/article: 671. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, it shall prevail; if it does not comply with those Articles, Part Five of this Code shall prevail.
2. Civil relation involving a foreign element means any of the following civil relations:
a) There is at least one of the participating parties is a foreign natural person or juridical person;
b) The participating parties are Vietnamese natural persons or juridical persons but the basis for the establishment, modification or termination of such relation arose in a foreign country;
c) The participating parties are Vietnamese natural persons or juridical persons but the subject matter of such civil relation is located in a foreign country.

Section 780. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Determination of law applying to civil relations involving foreign elements 
1. The international agreements to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory or Vietnamese law shall apply to civil relations involving foreign elements.
2. In case the international agreements to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory or a Vietnamese law stipulates that contracting parties have the right to select applied law, the law applied to civil relations involving foreign elements shall be determined according to the selection of the contracting parties.
3. If it fails to determine the applied law as prescribed in Clause 1 and Clause 2 of this Article, the applied law is the law of the country that closely associates with the civil relations involving foreign elements.

Section 781. Original section/article: 665. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of international treaty in terms of civil relations involving foreign elements 
1. In case an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory contains regulations on rights and obligations of contracting participants in the civil relations involving foreign elements, such international treaty shall prevail.
2. In case an international treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory contains provisions different from those in this Code and other laws in terms of applied law on civil relations involving foreign elements, such international treaty shall prevail.

Section 782. Original section/article: 666. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of international customary practices 
Contracting parties may select international customary practices in the case prescribed in Clause 2

Section 783. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the application of such international customary practices is contrary to the basic principles of the laws of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Vietnamese laws shall prevail.

Section 784. Original section/article: 667. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of foreign laws 
Where foreign law applies to a civil relation with different interpretations, the application must follow the interpretation of the competent authority in that country.

Section 785. Original section/article: 668. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Scope of the law to be referred to 
1. The law to be referred to include regulations on determination of applied law and regulations on rights and obligations of participants in civil relations, other than the case prescribed in Clause 4 of this Article.
2. Where the Vietnamese law is referred to, regulations of Vietnamese law on rights and obligations of participants of a civil relation shall apply.
3. Where law of a third country is referred to, regulations of that law on rights and obligations of participants of a civil relation shall apply.
4. With respect to regulations on Clause 2

Section 786. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the law selected by the contracting parties shall include rights and obligations of participants of the civil relation, and not include regulations on applied law.

Section 787. Original section/article: 669. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Application of law of countries having multiple legal systems 
If the law of a country having multiple legal systems is referred to, the applied law shall be determined according to the rules prescribed by such country's law.

Section 788. Original section/article: 670. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Non-application of foreign laws 
1. The foreign law, notwithstanding being referred to, shall not apply in any of the following cases:
a) The consequences of its application are not inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the law of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;
b) The contents of foreign law are not identifiable regardless of the adoption of necessary measures prescribed by procedural law.
2. In case the foreign law is not applied as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, Vietnamese law shall apply.

Section 789. Original section/article: 671. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Limitation periods 
Limitation periods for civil relations involving foreign elements shall be determined according to the law applying to such civil relations. Chapter XXVI 
THE LAW APPLIED TO NATURAL PERSONS AND JURIDICAL PERSONS

Section 790. Original section/article: 672. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bases for choice of law applicable to stateless persons and to foreigners with multiple foreign nationalities 
1. Where the law referred to is the law of a country of which a foreigner is a citizen but he/she is a stateless person, the applied law shall be the law of the country of residence of such person at the time when the civil relations involving foreign elements were established. If that person has multiple residences or his residence is unidentifiable at the time of establishing the civil relation involving foreign elements, the applied law shall be the law of the country with which such person closely associates.
2. Where the law referred to is the law of a country of which a foreigner is a citizen but he/she has multiple foreign nationalities, the applied law shall be the law of which he/she holds nationality and where he/she resided at the time when the civil relations involving foreign elements were established. If that person has multiple residences or his residence is unidentifiable or his/her residence is different from the country of which he/she holds nationality at the time when the civil relations involving foreign elements were established, the applied law shall be the law of the country with which such person closely associates.
Where the law referred to is the law of a country of which a foreigner is a citizen but he/she has multiple foreign nationalities, including Vietnamese nationality, the applied law shall be Vietnamese law.

Section 791. Original section/article: 673. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal personality of natural persons 
1. Legal personality of a natural person shall be determined according to the law of the country of which he/she holds nationality.
2. A foreigner in Vietnam shall have legal personality in the same manner as a Vietnamese citizen, unless otherwise provided by the law of Vietnam.

Section 792. Original section/article: 674. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Legal capacity of natural persons 
1. Legal capacity of a natural person shall be determined according to the law of the country of which he/she holds nationality, other than the case prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Where a foreigner establishes or performs civil transactions in Vietnam, his/her legal capacity shall be determined in accordance with the law of Vietnam.
3. The determination of a legally incapacitated person, a person with limited cognition or behavior control or a person with limited legal capacity in Vietnam shall be in accordance with the law of Vietnam.

Section 793. Original section/article: 675. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Determination of persons disappeared or died 
1. A determination that a person has disappeared or died must comply with the law of the country of which such person held nationality at the point of time prior to the last information about such disappearance or death, except for the case prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. The determination of a disappeared or dead person in Vietnam shall be in accordance with the law of Vietnam.

Section 794. Original section/article: 676. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Juridical persons 
1. The nationality of a juridical person shall be determined according to the law of the country in which such juridical person was established.
2. Legal personality, name, legal representatives, organization, restructuring, dissolution of a juridical person; relations between a juridical person and its members; responsibilities of a juridical person and its members pertaining to its obligations shall be determined in accordance with the law of the country of which such juridical person holds nationality, other than the case prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article.
3. Where a foreign juridical person establishes or performs civil transactions in Vietnam, its legal personality shall be determined in accordance with the law of Vietnam. Chapter XXVII 
THE LAW APPLIED TO PROPERTY RELATIONS AND PERSONAL RELATIONS

Section 795. Original section/article: 677. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Classification of property 
The classification between moveable and immoveable property shall be made in accordance with the laws of the country in which such property is located.

Section 796. Original section/article: 678. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ownership rights and other property-related rights 
1. The establishment, exercise, operation and termination of ownership rights and other property- related rights shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the country in which the property is located, except in the cases provided in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Ownership rights with respect to moveable property in transit shall be determined in accordance with the law of the country of destination, unless otherwise agreed.

Section 797. Original section/article: 679. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Intellectual property rights 
The intellectual property rights shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the country in which the objects of the intellectual property rights are required to be protected.

Section 798. Original section/article: 680. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Inheritance 
1. Inheritance must comply with the law of the country of which the person who bequeathed the assets held nationality prior to his or her death.
2. The right to inherit immoveable property must comply with the law of the country where such immoveable property is located.

Section 799. Original section/article: 681. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Wills 
1. The capacity to create a will, and to alter or rescind a will, must comply with the law of the country of which the testator is a citizen.
2. The form of a will must comply with the law of the country in the place where the will is created. The form of a will shall be also recognized in Vietnam if it complies with the laws of any of the following countries:
a) The country in which the testator resides at the time when the will is created or the testator dies;
b) The country of which the testator holds nationality at the time when the will is created or the testator dies;
c) The country where the inheritance being immovable property is located.

Section 800. Original section/article: 682. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Guardianship 
The guardianship shall be determined in accordance with the law of the country where the ward resides.

Section 801. Original section/article: 683. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Contracts 
1. Contracting parties in a contract may agree to select the applied law for the contract, other than regulations of Clauses 4, 5 and 6 of this Article. In case the contracting parties fail to agree the applied law, the law of the country with which such contract closely associates shall apply.
2. The laws of any of the following countries shall be treated as the law of the country with which such contract closely associates:
a) The law of the country where the seller being natural person resides or the seller being juridical person is established in terms of sale contracts;
b) The law of the country where the provider being natural person resides or the provider being juridical person is established in terms of service contracts;
c) The law of the country where the transferee being natural person resides or the seller being juridical person is established in terms of contracts of transferring rights to use or intellectual property rights;
d) The law of the country where employees frequently perform do jobs in terms of labor contracts. If an employee frequently does jobs in multiple countries or the country in which the employee frequently does his/her job is unidentifiable, the law of the country with which his/her labor contract closely associates shall be the law of the country where the employer being natural person resides or the employer being juridical person is established.
dd) The law of the country where consumers resides in terms of consume contract.
3. If there is evident that the law of a country other than the country prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article associates with the contract more closely than the latter, the law of the former country shall prevail.
4. If the object of a contract is an immovable property, the law applied to transfer of its ownership rights and/or other property-related rights, lease of immovable property or using the immovable property as the guarantee for performance of obligations shall be the law of the country where the immovable property is located.
5. If the applied law selected by contracting parties in a labor contract or a consume contract affects adversely minimum interests of employees or consumers as prescribed in the law of Vietnam, the law of Vietnam shall prevail.
6. Contracting parties in a contract may agree to change the applied law provided that such change does not affect adversely lawful rights and interests of a third party before changing, otherwise agreed by the third party.
7. Form of a contract shall be determined in accordance with the law applied to such type of contract. In case where the form of a contract does not comply with the form of the law applied to such contract but it comply with the form of the law of the country where the contract is entered into or the law of Vietnam, such form of contract shall be recognized in Vietnam.

Section 802. Original section/article: 684. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Unilateral acts 
The law applied to unilateral acts of a person shall be determined in accordance with the law of the country of residence with regard to natural person or the law of the country of establishment with regard to juridical person.

Section 803. Original section/article: 685. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Obligation to refund property possessed, used or derived unlawfully 
The obligation to refund property possessed, used or derived unlawfully shall be determined according to the law of the country where the property is possessed, used or derived unlawfully.

Section 804. Original section/article: 686. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Performance of acts without authorization 
Contracting parties may agree to select the law applied to the performance of acts without authorization. If the contracting parties fail to agree to select the applied law, the law of the country where the acts without authorization are performed shall prevail.

Section 805. Original section/article: 687. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Compensation for non-contractual damage 
1. Contracting parties may agree to select the law applied to the compensation for non- contractual damage, except for the case prescribed in Clause 2 of this Article. If the contracting parties fail to agree to select the applied law, the law of the country where the consequences of such acts arise shall prevail.
2. Where the party causing damage and the aggrieved party being natural persons have residence or being juridical person place of establishment in the same country, the law of such country shall prevail.
PART SIX 
IMPLEMENTATION

Section 806. Original section/article: 688. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Transitional regulations 
1. With respect to civil transactions established before the effective date of this Code, the law shall be implemented as follows:
a) The parties of non-performed civil transactions whose contents and forms are different from this Code shall keep complying with regulations of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and legislative documents on guidelines for the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11, unless the parties agree to amend the contents or forms of the transactions in accordance with this Code.
a) The parties of being-performed civil transactions whose contents and forms are different from this Code shall keep complying with regulations of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and legislative documents on guidelines for the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11;
b) The parties of non-performed or being-performed civil transactions whose contents and forms are conformable to this Code shall comply with regulations of this Code;
c) The parties of civil transactions that are completely performed before the effective date of this Code but arise dispute shall keep complying with regulations of the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 and legislative documents on guidelines for the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11;
d) Limitation periods shall comply with this Code.
2. This Code shall not apply to a case settled by a court in accordance with law on civil before the effective date of such Code for the purpose of appeal under cassation procedures.

Section 807. Original section/article: 689. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Effect This Code comes into force from January 1, 2017.
The Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 shall be annulled from the effective date of this Code.
This Code is passed by the 13th National Assembly of Socialist Republic of Vietnam during the 10th session on November 24, 2015.
PRESIDENT OF NATIONAL ASSEMBLY 
Nguyen Sinh Hung 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Unofficial translated by LPVN 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Código Civil N° 91/2015/QH13, de 24 de noviembre de 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Code civil n° 91/2015/QH13 du 24 novembre 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Bộ Luật dân sự số 91/2015/QH13 ngày 24/11/2015 
﻿ Bộ Luật Dân Sự (Luật số: 91/2015/QH13) 
QUỐC HỘI -------- 
CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM Độc lập - Tự do - Hạnh phúc --------------- 
Luật số: 91/2015/QH13 Hà Nội, ngày 24 tháng 11 năm 2015 
BỘ LUẬT 
DÂN SỰ Căn cứ Hiến pháp nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam; 
Quốc hội ban hành Bộ luật dân sự. 
Phần thứ nhất 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG 
Chương I 
NHỮNG QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 808. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi điều chỉnh 
Bộ luật này quy định địa vị pháp lý, chuẩn mực pháp lý về cách ứng xử của cá nhân, pháp nhân; quyền, nghĩa vụ về nhân thân và tài sản của cá nhân, pháp nhân trong các quan hệ được hình thành trên cơ sở bình đẳng, tự do ý chí, độc lập về tài sản và tự chịu trách nhiệm (sau đây gọi chung là quan hệ dân sự).

Section 809. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Công nhận, tôn trọng, bảo vệ và bảo đảm quyền dân sự 
1. Ở nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, các quyền dân sự được công nhận, tôn trọng, bảo vệ và bảo đảm theo Hiến pháp và pháp luật.
2. Quyền dân sự chỉ có thể bị hạn chế theo quy định của luật trong trường hợp cần thiết vì lý do quốc phòng, an ninh quốc gia, trật tự, an toàn xã hội, đạo đức xã hội, sức khỏe của cộng đồng.

Section 810. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự 
1. Mọi cá nhân, pháp nhân đều bình đẳng, không được lấy bất kỳ lý do nào để phân biệt đối xử; được pháp luật bảo hộ như nhau về các quyền nhân thân và tài sản.
2. Cá nhân, pháp nhân xác lập, thực hiện, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của mình trên cơ sở tự do, tự nguyện cam kết, thỏa thuận. Mọi cam kết, thỏa thuận không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội có hiệu lực thực hiện đối với các bên và phải được chủ thể khác tôn trọng.
3. Cá nhân, pháp nhân phải xác lập, thực hiện, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của mình một cách thiện chí, trung thực.
4. Việc xác lập, thực hiện, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự không được xâm phạm đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.
5. Cá nhân, pháp nhân phải tự chịu trách nhiệm về việc không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ dân sự.

Section 811. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng Bộ luật dân sự 
1. Bộ luật này là luật chung điều chỉnh các quan hệ dân sự.
2. Luật khác có liên quan điều chỉnh quan hệ dân sự trong các lĩnh vực cụ thể không được trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 812. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp luật khác có liên quan không quy định hoặc có quy định nhưng vi phạm khoản 2 Điều này thì quy định của Bộ luật này được áp dụng.
4. Trường hợp có sự khác nhau giữa quy định của Bộ luật này và điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên về cùng một vấn đề thì áp dụng quy định của điều ước quốc tế.

Section 813. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng tập quán 
1. Tập quán là quy tắc xử sự có nội dung rõ ràng để xác định quyền, nghĩa vụ của cá nhân, pháp nhân trong quan hệ dân sự cụ thể, được hình thành và lặp đi lặp lại nhiều lần trong một thời gian dài, được thừa nhận và áp dụng rộng rãi trong một vùng, miền, dân tộc, cộng đồng dân cư hoặc trong một lĩnh vực dân sự.
2. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận và pháp luật không quy định thì có thể áp dụng tập quán nhưng tập quán áp dụng không được trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 814. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng tương tự pháp luật 
1. Trường hợp phát sinh quan hệ thuộc phạm vi điều chỉnh của pháp luật dân sự mà các bên không có thỏa thuận, pháp luật không có quy định và không có tập quán được áp dụng thì áp dụng quy định của pháp luật điều chỉnh quan hệ dân sự tương tự.
2. Trường hợp không thể áp dụng tương tự pháp luật theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì áp dụng các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 815. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, án lệ, lẽ công bằng.

Section 816. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chính sách của Nhà nước đối với quan hệ dân sự 
1. Việc xác lập, thực hiện, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự phải bảo đảm giữ gìn bản sắc dân tộc, tôn trọng và phát huy phong tục, tập quán, truyền thống tốt đẹp, tình đoàn kết, tương thân, tương ái, mỗi người vì cộng đồng, cộng đồng vì mỗi người và các giá trị đạo đức cao đẹp của các dân tộc cùng sinh sống trên đất nước Việt Nam.
2. Trong quan hệ dân sự, việc hòa giải giữa các bên phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật được khuyến khích.
Chương II 
XÁC LẬP, THỰC HIỆN VÀ BẢO VỆ QUYỀN DÂN SỰ

Section 817. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền dân sự Quyền dân sự được xác lập từ các căn cứ sau đây:
1. Hợp đồng.
2. Hành vi pháp lý đơn phương.
3. Quyết định của Tòa án, cơ quan có thẩm quyền khác theo quy định của luật.
4. Kết quả của lao động, sản xuất, kinh doanh; kết quả của hoạt động sáng tạo ra đối tượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ.
5. Chiếm hữu tài sản.
6. Sử dụng tài sản, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật.
7. Bị thiệt hại do hành vi trái pháp luật.
8. Thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền.
9. Căn cứ khác do pháp luật quy định.

Section 818. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện quyền dân sự 
1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân thực hiện quyền dân sự theo ý chí của mình, không được trái với quy định tại

Section 819. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Việc cá nhân, pháp nhân không thực hiện quyền dân sự của mình không phải là căn cứ làm chấm dứt quyền, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 820. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giới hạn việc thực hiện quyền dân sự 
1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân không được lạm dụng quyền dân sự của mình gây thiệt hại cho người khác, để vi phạm nghĩa vụ của mình hoặc thực hiện mục đích khác trái pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp cá nhân, pháp nhân không tuân thủ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì Tòa án hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền khác căn cứ vào tính chất, hậu quả của hành vi vi phạm mà có thể không bảo vệ một phần hoặc toàn bộ quyền của họ, buộc bồi thường nếu gây thiệt hại và có thể áp dụng chế tài khác do luật quy định.

Section 821. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Các phương thức bảo vệ quyền dân sự 
Khi quyền dân sự của cá nhân, pháp nhân bị xâm phạm thì chủ thể đó có quyền tự bảo vệ theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan hoặc yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền:
1. Công nhận, tôn trọng, bảo vệ và bảo đảm quyền dân sự của mình.
2. Buộc chấm dứt hành vi xâm phạm.
3. Buộc xin lỗi, cải chính công khai.
4. Buộc thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
5. Buộc bồi thường thiệt hại.
6. Hủy quyết định cá biệt trái pháp luật của cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền.
7. Yêu cầu khác theo quy định của luật.

Section 822. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tự bảo vệ quyền dân sự 
Việc tự bảo vệ quyền dân sự phải phù hợp với tính chất, mức độ xâm phạm đến quyền dân sự đó và không được trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 823. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại 
Cá nhân, pháp nhân có quyền dân sự bị xâm phạm được bồi thường toàn bộ thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.

Section 824. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ quyền dân sự thông qua cơ quan có thẩm quyền 
1. Tòa án, cơ quan có thẩm quyền khác có trách nhiệm tôn trọng, bảo vệ quyền dân sự của cá nhân, pháp nhân.
Trường hợp quyền dân sự bị xâm phạm hoặc có tranh chấp thì việc bảo vệ quyền được thực hiện theo pháp luật tố tụng tại Tòa án hoặc trọng tài.
Việc bảo vệ quyền dân sự theo thủ tục hành chính được thực hiện trong trường hợp luật quy định. Quyết định giải quyết vụ việc theo thủ tục hành chính có thể được xem xét lại tại Tòa án.
2. Tòa án không được từ chối giải quyết vụ, việc dân sự vì lý do chưa có điều luật để áp dụng; trong trường hợp này, quy định tại

Section 825. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này được áp dụng.

Section 826. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy quyết định cá biệt trái pháp luật của cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền 
Khi giải quyết yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền dân sự, Tòa án hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền khác có quyền hủy quyết định cá biệt trái pháp luật của cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền.
Trường hợp quyết định cá biệt bị hủy thì quyền dân sự bị xâm phạm được khôi phục và có thể được bảo vệ bằng các phương thức quy định tại

Section 827. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Chương III 
CÁ NHÂN 
Mục 1. NĂNG LỰC PHÁP LUẬT DÂN SỰ, NĂNG LỰC HÀNH VI DÂN SỰ CỦA CÁ NHÂN

Section 828. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân 
1. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân là khả năng của cá nhân có quyền dân sự và nghĩa vụ dân sự.
2. Mọi cá nhân đều có năng lực pháp luật dân sự như nhau.
3. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân có từ khi người đó sinh ra và chấm dứt khi người đó chết.

Section 829. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân 1. Quyền nhân thân không gắn với tài sản và quyền nhân thân gắn với tài sản.
2. Quyền sở hữu, quyền thừa kế và quyền khác đối với tài sản.
3. Quyền tham gia quan hệ dân sự và có nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ quan hệ đó.

Section 830. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Không hạn chế năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân 
Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân không bị hạn chế, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.

Section 831. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực hành vi dân sự của cá nhân 
Năng lực hành vi dân sự của cá nhân là khả năng của cá nhân bằng hành vi của mình xác lập, thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự.

Section 832. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người thành niên 1. Người thành niên là người từ đủ mười tám tuổi trở lên.
2. Người thành niên có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ, trừ trường hợp quy định tại các

Section 833. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 23 và 24 của Bộ luật này.

Section 834. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người chưa thành niên 1. Người chưa thành niên là người chưa đủ mười tám tuổi.
2. Giao dịch dân sự của người chưa đủ sáu tuổi do người đại diện theo pháp luật của người đó xác lập, thực hiện.
3. Người từ đủ sáu tuổi đến chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi khi xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự phải được người đại diện theo pháp luật đồng ý, trừ giao dịch dân sự phục vụ nhu cầu sinh hoạt hàng ngày phù hợp với lứa tuổi.
4. Người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi tự mình xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự, trừ giao dịch dân sự liên quan đến bất động sản, động sản phải đăng ký và giao dịch dân sự khác theo quy định của luật phải được người đại diện theo pháp luật đồng ý.

Section 835. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mất năng lực hành vi dân sự 
1. Khi một người do bị bệnh tâm thần hoặc mắc bệnh khác mà không thể nhận thức, làm chủ được hành vi thì theo yêu cầu của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố người này là người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự trên cơ sở kết luận giám định pháp y tâm thần.
Khi không còn căn cứ tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự thì theo yêu cầu của chính người đó hoặc của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự.
2. Giao dịch dân sự của người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự phải do người đại diện theo pháp luật xác lập, thực hiện.

Section 836. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi 
1. Người thành niên do tình trạng thể chất hoặc tinh thần mà không đủ khả năng nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi nhưng chưa đến mức mất năng lực hành vi dân sự thì theo yêu cầu của người này, người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, trên cơ sở kết luận giám định pháp y tâm thần, Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố người này là người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi và chỉ định người giám hộ, xác định quyền, nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ.
2. Khi không còn căn cứ tuyên bố một người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì theo yêu cầu của chính người đó hoặc của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.

Section 837. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự 
1. Người nghiện ma túy, nghiện các chất kích thích khác dẫn đến phá tán tài sản của gia đình thì theo yêu cầu của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, Tòa án có thể ra quyết định tuyên bố người này là người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự.
Tòa án quyết định người đại diện theo pháp luật của người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự và phạm vi đại diện.
2. Việc xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự liên quan đến tài sản của người bị Tòa án tuyên bố hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự phải có sự đồng ý của người đại diện theo pháp luật, trừ giao dịch nhằm phục vụ nhu cầu sinh hoạt hàng ngày hoặc luật liên quan có quy định khác.
3. Khi không còn căn cứ tuyên bố một người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự thì theo yêu cầu của chính người đó hoặc của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan, Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự.
Mục 2. QUYỀN NHÂN THÂN

Section 838. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền nhân thân 
1. Quyền nhân thân được quy định trong Bộ luật này là quyền dân sự gắn liền với mỗi cá nhân, không thể chuyển giao cho người khác, trừ trường hợp luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
2. Việc xác lập, thực hiện quan hệ dân sự liên quan đến quyền nhân thân của người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi phải được người đại diện theo pháp luật của người này đồng ý theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan hoặc theo quyết định của Tòa án.
Việc xác lập, thực hiện quan hệ dân sự liên quan đến quyền nhân thân của người bị tuyên bố mất tích, người đã chết phải được sự đồng ý của vợ, chồng hoặc con thành niên của người đó; trường hợp không có những người này thì phải được sự đồng ý của cha, mẹ của người bị tuyên bố mất tích, người đã chết, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.

Section 839. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền có họ, tên 
1. Cá nhân có quyền có họ, tên (bao gồm cả chữ đệm, nếu có) . Họ, tên của một người được xác định theo họ, tên khai sinh của người đó.
2. Họ của cá nhân được xác định là họ của cha đẻ hoặc họ của mẹ đẻ theo thỏa thuận của cha mẹ; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì họ của con được xác định theo tập quán. Trường hợp chưa xác định được cha đẻ thì họ của con được xác định theo họ của mẹ đẻ.
Trường hợp trẻ em bị bỏ rơi, chưa xác định được cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ và được nhận làm con nuôi thì họ của trẻ em được xác định theo họ của cha nuôi hoặc họ của mẹ nuôi theo thỏa thuận của cha mẹ nuôi. Trường hợp chỉ có cha nuôi hoặc mẹ nuôi thì họ của trẻ em được xác định theo họ của người đó.
Trường hợp trẻ em bị bỏ rơi, chưa xác định được cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ và chưa được nhận làm con nuôi thì họ của trẻ em được xác định theo đề nghị của người đứng đầu cơ sở nuôi dưỡng trẻ em đó hoặc theo đề nghị của người có yêu cầu đăng ký khai sinh cho trẻ em, nếu trẻ em đang được người đó tạm thời nuôi dưỡng.
Cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ được quy định trong Bộ luật này là cha, mẹ được xác định dựa trên sự kiện sinh đẻ; người nhờ mang thai hộ với người được sinh ra từ việc mang thai hộ theo quy định của Luật hôn nhân và gia đình.
3. Việc đặt tên bị hạn chế trong trường hợp xâm phạm đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác hoặc trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 840. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Tên của công dân Việt Nam phải bằng tiếng Việt hoặc tiếng dân tộc khác của Việt Nam; không đặt tên bằng số, bằng một ký tự mà không phải là chữ.
4. Cá nhân xác lập, thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự theo họ, tên của mình.
5. Việc sử dụng bí danh, bút danh không được gây thiệt hại đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.

Section 841. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền thay đổi họ 
1. Cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền công nhận việc thay đổi họ trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Thay đổi họ cho con đẻ từ họ của cha đẻ sang họ của mẹ đẻ hoặc ngược lại;
b) Thay đổi họ cho con nuôi từ họ của cha đẻ hoặc mẹ đẻ sang họ của cha nuôi hoặc họ của mẹ nuôi theo yêu cầu của cha nuôi, mẹ nuôi;
c) Khi người con nuôi thôi làm con nuôi và người này hoặc cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ yêu cầu lấy lại họ cho người đó theo họ của cha đẻ hoặc mẹ đẻ;
d) Thay đổi họ cho con theo yêu cầu của cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ hoặc của con khi xác định cha, mẹ cho con;
đ) Thay đổi họ của người bị lưu lạc đã tìm ra nguồn gốc huyết thống của mình;
e) Thay đổi họ theo họ của vợ, họ của chồng trong quan hệ hôn nhân và gia đình có yếu tố nước ngoài để phù hợp với pháp luật của nước mà vợ, chồng người nước ngoài là công dân hoặc lấy lại họ trước khi thay đổi;
g) Thay đổi họ của con khi cha, mẹ thay đổi họ;
h) Trường hợp khác do pháp luật về hộ tịch quy định.
2. Việc thay đổi họ cho người từ đủ chín tuổi trở lên phải có sự đồng ý của người đó.
3. Việc thay đổi họ của cá nhân không làm thay đổi, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự được xác lập theo họ cũ.

Section 842. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền thay đổi tên 
1. Cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền công nhận việc thay đổi tên trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo yêu cầu của người có tên mà việc sử dụng tên đó gây nhầm lẫn, ảnh hưởng đến tình cảm gia đình, đến danh dự, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người đó;
b) Theo yêu cầu của cha nuôi, mẹ nuôi về việc thay đổi tên cho con nuôi hoặc khi người con nuôi thôi làm con nuôi và người này hoặc cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ yêu cầu lấy lại tên mà cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ đã đặt;
c) Theo yêu cầu của cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ hoặc người con khi xác định cha, mẹ cho con;
d) Thay đổi tên của người bị lưu lạc đã tìm ra nguồn gốc huyết thống của mình;
đ) Thay đổi tên của vợ, chồng trong quan hệ hôn nhân và gia đình có yếu tố nước ngoài để phù hợp với pháp luật của nước mà vợ, chồng người nước ngoài là công dân hoặc lấy lại tên trước khi thay đổi;
e) Thay đổi tên của người đã xác định lại giới tính, người đã chuyển đổi giới tính;
g) Trường hợp khác do pháp luật về hộ tịch quy định.
2. Việc thay đổi tên cho người từ đủ chín tuổi trở lên phải có sự đồng ý của người đó.
3. Việc thay đổi tên của cá nhân không làm thay đổi, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự được xác lập theo tên cũ.

Section 843. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền xác định, xác định lại dân tộc 1. Cá nhân có quyền xác định, xác định lại dân tộc của mình.
2. Cá nhân khi sinh ra được xác định dân tộc theo dân tộc của cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ. Trường hợp cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ thuộc hai dân tộc khác nhau thì dân tộc của con được xác định theo dân tộc của cha đẻ hoặc mẹ đẻ theo thỏa thuận của cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ; trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì dân tộc của con được xác định theo tập quán; trường hợp tập quán khác nhau thì dân tộc của con được xác định theo tập quán của dân tộc ít người hơn.
Trường hợp trẻ em bị bỏ rơi, chưa xác định được cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ và được nhận làm con nuôi thì được xác định dân tộc theo dân tộc của cha nuôi hoặc mẹ nuôi theo thỏa thuận của cha mẹ nuôi. Trường hợp chỉ có cha nuôi hoặc mẹ nuôi thì dân tộc của trẻ em được xác định theo dân tộc của người đó.
Trường hợp trẻ em bị bỏ rơi, chưa xác định được cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ và chưa được nhận làm con nuôi thì được xác định dân tộc theo đề nghị của người đứng đầu cơ sở nuôi dưỡng trẻ em đó hoặc theo đề nghị của người đang tạm thời nuôi dưỡng trẻ em vào thời điểm đăng ký khai sinh cho trẻ em.
3. Cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xác định lại dân tộc trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Xác định lại theo dân tộc của cha đẻ hoặc mẹ đẻ trong trường hợp cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ thuộc hai dân tộc khác nhau;
b) Xác định lại theo dân tộc của cha đẻ hoặc mẹ đẻ trong trường hợp con nuôi đã xác định được cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ của mình.
4. Việc xác định lại dân tộc cho người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến dưới mười tám tuổi phải được sự đồng ý của người đó.
5. Cấm lợi dụng việc xác định lại dân tộc nhằm mục đích trục lợi hoặc gây chia rẽ, phương hại đến sự đoàn kết của các dân tộc Việt Nam.

Section 844. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền được khai sinh, khai tử 1. Cá nhân từ khi sinh ra có quyền được khai sinh.
2. Cá nhân chết phải được khai tử.
3. Trẻ em sinh ra mà sống được từ hai mươi bốn giờ trở lên mới chết thì phải được khai sinh và khai tử; nếu sinh ra mà sống dưới hai mươi bốn giờ thì không phải khai sinh và khai tử, trừ trường hợp cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ có yêu cầu.
4. Việc khai sinh, khai tử do pháp luật về hộ tịch quy định.

Section 845. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đối với quốc tịch 1. Cá nhân có quyền có quốc tịch.
2. Việc xác định, thay đổi, nhập, thôi, trở lại quốc tịch Việt Nam do Luật quốc tịch Việt Nam quy định.
3. Quyền của người không quốc tịch cư trú, sinh sống trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam được bảo đảm theo luật.

Section 846. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của cá nhân đối với hình ảnh 1. Cá nhân có quyền đối với hình ảnh của mình.
Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của cá nhân phải được người đó đồng ý.
Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của người khác vì mục đích thương mại thì phải trả thù lao cho người có hình ảnh, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh trong trường hợp sau đây không cần có sự đồng ý của người có hình ảnh hoặc người đại diện theo pháp luật của họ:
a) Hình ảnh được sử dụng vì lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng;
b) Hình ảnh được sử dụng từ các hoạt động công cộng, bao gồm hội nghị, hội thảo, hoạt động thi đấu thể thao, biểu diễn nghệ thuật và hoạt động công cộng khác mà không làm tổn hại đến danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của người có hình ảnh.
3. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh mà vi phạm quy định tại Điều này thì người có hình ảnh có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án ra quyết định buộc người vi phạm, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan phải thu hồi, tiêu hủy, chấm dứt việc sử dụng hình ảnh, bồi thường thiệt hại và áp dụng các biện pháp xử lý khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 847. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sống, quyền được bảo đảm an toàn về tính mạng, sức khỏe, thân thể 
1. Cá nhân có quyền sống, quyền bất khả xâm phạm về tính mạng, thân thể, quyền được pháp luật bảo hộ về sức khỏe. Không ai bị tước đoạt tính mạng trái luật.
2. Khi phát hiện người bị tai nạn, bệnh tật mà tính mạng bị đe dọa thì người phát hiện có trách nhiệm hoặc yêu cầu cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức khác có điều kiện cần thiết đưa ngay đến cơ sở khám bệnh, chữa bệnh nơi gần nhất; cơ sở khám bệnh, chữa bệnh có trách nhiệm thực hiện việc khám bệnh, chữa bệnh theo quy định của pháp luật về khám bệnh, chữa bệnh.
3. Việc gây mê, mổ, cắt bỏ, cấy ghép mô, bộ phận cơ thể người; thực hiện kỹ thuật, phương pháp khám, chữa bệnh mới trên cơ thể người; thử nghiệm y học, dược học, khoa học hay bất cứ hình thức thử nghiệm nào khác trên cơ thể người phải được sự đồng ý của người đó và phải được tổ chức có thẩm quyền thực hiện.
Trường hợp người được thử nghiệm là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi hoặc là bệnh nhân bất tỉnh thì phải được cha, mẹ, vợ, chồng, con thành niên hoặc người giám hộ của người đó đồng ý; trường hợp có nguy cơ đe dọa đến tính mạng của bệnh nhân mà không chờ được ý kiến của những người nêu trên thì phải có quyết định của người có thẩm quyền của cơ sở khám bệnh, chữa bệnh.
4. Việc khám nghiệm tử thi được thực hiện khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Có sự đồng ý của người đó trước khi chết;
b) Có sự đồng ý của cha, mẹ, vợ, chồng, con thành niên hoặc người giám hộ nếu không có ý kiến của người đó trước khi chết;
c) Theo quyết định của người đứng đầu cơ sở khám bệnh, chữa bệnh hoặc của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền trong trường hợp luật quy định.

Section 848. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền được bảo vệ danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín 1. Danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của cá nhân là bất khả xâm phạm và được pháp luật bảo vệ.
2. Cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án bác bỏ thông tin làm ảnh hưởng xấu đến danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của mình.
Việc bảo vệ danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín có thể được thực hiện sau khi cá nhân chết theo yêu cầu của vợ, chồng hoặc con thành niên; trường hợp không có những người này thì theo yêu cầu của cha, mẹ của người đã chết, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.
3. Thông tin ảnh hưởng xấu đến danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của cá nhân được đăng tải trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng nào thì phải được gỡ bỏ, cải chính bằng chính phương tiện thông tin đại chúng đó. Nếu thông tin này được cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cất giữ thì phải được hủy bỏ.
4. Trường hợp không xác định được người đã đưa tin ảnh hưởng xấu đến danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của mình thì người bị đưa tin có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố thông tin đó là không đúng.
5. Cá nhân bị thông tin làm ảnh hưởng xấu đến danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín thì ngoài quyền yêu cầu bác bỏ thông tin đó còn có quyền yêu cầu người đưa ra thông tin xin lỗi, cải chính công khai và bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 849. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền hiến, nhận mô, bộ phận cơ thể người và hiến, lấy xác 
1. Cá nhân có quyền hiến mô, bộ phận cơ thể của mình khi còn sống hoặc hiến mô, bộ phận cơ thể, hiến xác của mình sau khi chết vì mục đích chữa bệnh cho người khác hoặc nghiên cứu y học, dược học và các nghiên cứu khoa học khác.
2. Cá nhân có quyền nhận mô, bộ phận cơ thể của người khác để chữa bệnh cho mình. Cơ sở khám bệnh, chữa bệnh, pháp nhân có thẩm quyền về nghiên cứu khoa học có quyền nhận bộ phận cơ thể người, lấy xác để chữa bệnh, thử nghiệm y học, dược học và các nghiên cứu khoa học khác.
3. Việc hiến, lấy mô, bộ phận cơ thể người, hiến, lấy xác phải tuân thủ theo các điều kiện và được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật hiến, lấy, ghép mô, bộ phận cơ thể người và hiến, lấy xác và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 850. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền xác định lại giới tính 1. Cá nhân có quyền xác định lại giới tính.
Việc xác định lại giới tính của một người được thực hiện trong trường hợp giới tính của người đó bị khuyết tật bẩm sinh hoặc chưa định hình chính xác mà cần có sự can thiệp của y học nhằm xác định rõ giới tính.
2. Việc xác định lại giới tính được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Cá nhân đã thực hiện việc xác định lại giới tính có quyền, nghĩa vụ đăng ký thay đổi hộ tịch theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch; có quyền nhân thân phù hợp với giới tính đã được xác định lại theo quy định của Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 851. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển đổi giới tính 
Việc chuyển đổi giới tính được thực hiện theo quy định của luật. Cá nhân đã chuyển đổi giới tính có quyền, nghĩa vụ đăng ký thay đổi hộ tịch theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch; có quyền
nhân thân phù hợp với giới tính đã được chuyển đổi theo quy định của Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 852. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền về đời sống riêng tư, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình 
1. Đời sống riêng tư, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình là bất khả xâm phạm và được pháp luật bảo vệ.
2. Việc thu thập, lưu giữ, sử dụng, công khai thông tin liên quan đến đời sống riêng tư, bí mật cá nhân phải được người đó đồng ý, việc thu thập, lưu giữ, sử dụng, công khai thông tin liên quan đến bí mật gia đình phải được các thành viên gia đình đồng ý, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
3. Thư tín, điện thoại, điện tín, cơ sở dữ liệu điện tử và các hình thức trao đổi thông tin riêng tư khác của cá nhân được bảo đảm an toàn và bí mật.
Việc bóc mở, kiểm soát, thu giữ thư tín, điện thoại, điện tín, cơ sở dữ liệu điện tử và các hình thức trao đổi thông tin riêng tư khác của người khác chỉ được thực hiện trong trường hợp luật quy định.
4. Các bên trong hợp đồng không được tiết lộ thông tin về đời sống riêng tư, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình của nhau mà mình đã biết được trong quá trình xác lập, thực hiện hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 853. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền nhân thân trong hôn nhân và gia đình 
1. Cá nhân có quyền kết hôn, ly hôn, quyền bình đẳng của vợ chồng, quyền xác định cha, mẹ, con, quyền được nhận làm con nuôi, quyền nuôi con nuôi và các quyền nhân thân khác trong quan hệ hôn nhân, quan hệ cha mẹ và con và quan hệ giữa các thành viên gia đình.
Con sinh ra không phụ thuộc vào tình trạng hôn nhân của cha, mẹ đều có quyền và nghĩa vụ như nhau đối với cha, mẹ của mình.
2. Cá nhân thực hiện quyền nhân thân trong hôn nhân và gia đình theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật hôn nhân và gia đình và luật khác có liên quan.
Mục 3. NƠI CƯ TRÚ

Section 854. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của cá nhân 1. Nơi cư trú của cá nhân là nơi người đó thường xuyên sinh sống.
2. Trường hợp không xác định được nơi cư trú của cá nhân theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì nơi cư trú của cá nhân là nơi người đó đang sinh sống.
3. Trường hợp một bên trong quan hệ dân sự thay đổi nơi cư trú gắn với việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ thì phải thông báo cho bên kia biết về nơi cư trú mới.

Section 855. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của người chưa thành niên 
1. Nơi cư trú của người chưa thành niên là nơi cư trú của cha, mẹ; nếu cha, mẹ có nơi cư trú khác nhau thì nơi cư trú của người chưa thành niên là nơi cư trú của cha hoặc mẹ mà người chưa thành niên thường xuyên chung sống.
2. Người chưa thành niên có thể có nơi cư trú khác với nơi cư trú của cha, mẹ nếu được cha, mẹ đồng ý hoặc pháp luật có quy định.

Section 856. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của người được giám hộ 1. Nơi cư trú của người được giám hộ là nơi cư trú của người giám hộ.
2. Người được giám hộ có thể có nơi cư trú khác với nơi cư trú của người giám hộ nếu được người giám hộ đồng ý hoặc pháp luật có quy định.

Section 857. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của vợ, chồng 1. Nơi cư trú của vợ, chồng là nơi vợ, chồng thường xuyên chung sống.
2. Vợ, chồng có thể có nơi cư trú khác nhau nếu có thỏa thuận.

Section 858. Original section/article: 44. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của quân nhân 
1. Nơi cư trú của quân nhân đang thực hiện nghĩa vụ quân sự là nơi đơn vị của quân nhân đó đóng quân.
2. Nơi cư trú của sĩ quan quân đội, quân nhân chuyên nghiệp, công nhân, viên chức quốc phòng là nơi đơn vị của người đó đóng quân, trừ trường hợp họ có nơi cư trú theo quy định tại khoản 1 Ðiều 40 của Bộ luật này.

Section 859. Original section/article: 45. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nơi cư trú của người làm nghề lưu động 
Nơi cư trú của người làm nghề lưu động trên tàu, thuyền, phương tiện hành nghề lưu động khác là nơi đăng ký tàu, thuyền, phương tiện đó, trừ trường hợp họ có nơi cư trú theo quy định tại khoản 1 Ðiều 40 của Bộ luật này.
Mục 4. GIÁM HỘ

Section 860. Original section/article: 46. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giám hộ 
1. Giám hộ là việc cá nhân, pháp nhân được luật quy định, được Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã cử, được Tòa án chỉ định hoặc được quy định tại khoản 2

Section 861. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này (sau đây gọi chung là người giám hộ) để thực hiện việc chăm sóc, bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi (sau đây gọi chung là người được giám hộ).
2. Trường hợp giám hộ cho người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì phải được sự đồng ý của người đó nếu họ có năng lực thể hiện ý chí của mình tại thời điểm yêu cầu.
3. Việc giám hộ phải được đăng ký tại cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.
Người giám hộ đương nhiên mà không đăng ký việc giám hộ thì vẫn phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ.

Section 862. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người được giám hộ 1. Người được giám hộ bao gồm:
a) Người chưa thành niên không còn cha, mẹ hoặc không xác định được cha, mẹ;
b) Người chưa thành niên có cha, mẹ nhưng cha, mẹ đều mất năng lực hành vi dân sự; cha, mẹ đều có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi; cha, mẹ đều bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự; cha, mẹ đều bị Tòa án tuyên bố hạn chế quyền đối với con; cha, mẹ đều không có điều kiện chăm sóc, giáo dục con và có yêu cầu người giám hộ;
c) Người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự;
d) Người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.
2. Một người chỉ có thể được một người giám hộ, trừ trường hợp cha, mẹ cùng giám hộ cho con hoặc ông, bà cùng giám hộ cho cháu.

Section 863. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người giám hộ 1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân có đủ điều kiện quy định tại Bộ luật này được làm người giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp người có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ lựa chọn người giám hộ cho mình thì khi họ ở tình trạng cần được giám hộ, cá nhân, pháp nhân được lựa chọn là người giám hộ nếu người này đồng ý. Việc lựa chọn người giám hộ phải được lập thành văn bản có công chứng hoặc chứng thực.
3. Một cá nhân, pháp nhân có thể giám hộ cho nhiều người.

Section 864. Original section/article: 49. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện của cá nhân làm người giám hộ Cá nhân có đủ các điều kiện sau đây có thể làm người giám hộ:
1. Có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ.
2. Có tư cách đạo đức tốt và các điều kiện cần thiết để thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ.
3. Không phải là người đang bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự hoặc người bị kết án nhưng chưa được xoá án tích về một trong các tội cố ý xâm phạm tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, tài sản của người khác.
4. Không phải là người bị Tòa án tuyên bố hạn chế quyền đối với con chưa thành niên.

Section 865. Original section/article: 50. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện của pháp nhân làm người giám hộ Pháp nhân có đủ các điều kiện sau đây có thể làm người giám hộ:
1. Có năng lực pháp luật dân sự phù hợp với việc giám hộ.
2. Có điều kiện cần thiết để thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ.

Section 866. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giám sát việc giám hộ 
1. Người thân thích của người được giám hộ thỏa thuận cử người giám sát việc giám hộ trong số những người thân thích hoặc chọn cá nhân, pháp nhân khác làm người giám sát việc giám hộ.
Việc cử, chọn người giám sát việc giám hộ phải được sự đồng ý của người đó. Trường hợp giám sát việc giám hộ liên quan đến quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ thì người giám sát phải đăng ký tại Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người được giám hộ.
Người thân thích của người được giám hộ là vợ, chồng, cha, mẹ, con của người được giám hộ; nếu không có ai trong số những người này thì người thân thích của người được giám hộ là ông, bà, anh ruột, chị ruột, em ruột của người được giám hộ; nếu cũng không có ai trong số những người này thì người thân thích của người được giám hộ là bác ruột, chú ruột, cậu ruột, cô ruột, dì ruột của người được giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp không có người thân thích của người được giám hộ hoặc những người thân thích không cử, chọn được người giám sát việc giám hộ theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì Ủy ban
nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người giám hộ cử cá nhân hoặc pháp nhân giám sát việc giám hộ. Trường hợp có tranh chấp về việc cử, chọn người giám sát việc giám hộ thì Tòa án quyết định.
3. Người giám sát việc giám hộ phải là người có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ nếu là cá nhân, có năng lực pháp luật dân sự phù hợp với việc giám sát nếu là pháp nhân; có điều kiện cần thiết để thực hiện việc giám sát.
4. Người giám sát việc giám hộ có quyền và nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Theo dõi, kiểm tra người giám hộ trong việc thực hiện giám hộ;
b) Xem xét, có ý kiến kịp thời bằng văn bản về việc xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự quy định tại

Section 867. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Yêu cầu cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền về giám hộ xem xét thay đổi hoặc chấm dứt việc giám hộ, giám sát việc giám hộ.

Section 868. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người giám hộ đương nhiên của người chưa thành niên 
Người giám hộ đương nhiên của người chưa thành niên quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản 1

Section 869. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này được xác định theo thứ tự sau đây:
1. Anh ruột là anh cả hoặc chị ruột là chị cả là người giám hộ; nếu anh cả hoặc chị cả không có đủ điều kiện làm người giám hộ thì anh ruột hoặc chị ruột tiếp theo là người giám hộ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận anh ruột hoặc chị ruột khác làm người giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp không có người giám hộ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì ông nội, bà nội, ông ngoại, bà ngoại là người giám hộ hoặc những người này thỏa thuận cử một hoặc một số người trong số họ làm người giám hộ.
3. Trường hợp không có người giám hộ quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì bác ruột, chú ruột, cậu ruột, cô ruột hoặc dì ruột là người giám hộ.

Section 870. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người giám hộ đương nhiên của người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự 
Trường hợp không có người giám hộ theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 871. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người giám hộ đương nhiên của người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự được xác định như sau:
1. Trường hợp vợ là người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự thì chồng là người giám hộ; nếu chồng là người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự thì vợ là người giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp cha và mẹ đều mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, còn người kia không có đủ điều kiện làm người giám hộ thì người con cả là người giám hộ; nếu người con cả không có đủ điều kiện làm người giám hộ thì người con tiếp theo có đủ điều kiện làm người giám hộ là người giám hộ.
3. Trường hợp người thành niên mất năng lực hành vi dân sự chưa có vợ, chồng, con hoặc có mà vợ, chồng, con đều không có đủ điều kiện làm người giám hộ thì cha, mẹ là người giám hộ.

Section 872. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cử, chỉ định người giám hộ 
1. Trường hợp người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự không có người giám hộ đương nhiên theo quy định tại

Section 873. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người được giám hộ có trách nhiệm cử người giám hộ.
Trường hợp có tranh chấp giữa những người giám hộ quy định tại

Section 874. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này về người giám hộ hoặc tranh chấp về việc cử người giám hộ thì Tòa án chỉ định người giám hộ.
Trường hợp cử, chỉ định người giám hộ cho người chưa thành niên từ đủ sáu tuổi trở lên thì phải xem xét nguyện vọng của người này.
2. Việc cử người giám hộ phải được sự đồng ý của người được cử làm người giám hộ.
3. Việc cử người giám hộ phải được lập thành văn bản, trong đó ghi rõ lý do cử người giám hộ, quyền, nghĩa vụ cụ thể của người giám hộ, tình trạng tài sản của người được giám hộ.
4. Trừ trường hợp áp dụng quy định tại khoản 2

Section 875. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, người giám hộ của người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi do Tòa án chỉ định trong số những người giám hộ quy định tại

Section 876. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp không có người giám hộ theo quy định trên, Tòa án chỉ định người giám hộ hoặc đề nghị một pháp nhân thực hiện việc giám hộ.

Section 877. Original section/article: 55. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ đối với người được giám hộ chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi 1. Chăm sóc, giáo dục người được giám hộ.
2. Đại diện cho người được giám hộ trong các giao dịch dân sự, trừ trường hợp pháp luật quy định người chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi có thể tự mình xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự.
3. Quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ.
4. Bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người được giám hộ.

Section 878. Original section/article: 56. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ đối với người được giám hộ từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi 
1. Đại diện cho người được giám hộ trong các giao dịch dân sự, trừ trường hợp pháp luật quy định người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi có thể tự mình xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự.
2. Quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người được giám hộ.

Section 879. Original section/article: 57. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ đối với người được giám hộ mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi 1. Người giám hộ của người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Chăm sóc, bảo đảm việc điều trị bệnh cho người được giám hộ;
b) Đại diện cho người được giám hộ trong các giao dịch dân sự;
c) Quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ;
d) Bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người được giám hộ.
2. Người giám hộ của người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi có nghĩa vụ theo quyết định của Tòa án trong số các nghĩa vụ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 880. Original section/article: 58. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của người giám hộ 
1. Người giám hộ của người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự có các quyền sau đây:
a) Sử dụng tài sản của người được giám hộ để chăm sóc, chi dùng cho những nhu cầu thiết yếu của người được giám hộ;
b) Được thanh toán các chi phí hợp lý cho việc quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ;
c) Đại diện cho người được giám hộ trong việc xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự và thực hiện các quyền khác theo quy định của pháp luật nhằm bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người được giám hộ.
2. Người giám hộ của người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi có quyền theo quyết định của Tòa án trong số các quyền quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 881. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ 
1. Người giám hộ của người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự có trách nhiệm quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ như tài sản của chính mình; được thực hiện giao dịch dân sự liên quan đến tài sản của người được giám hộ vì lợi ích của người được giám hộ.
Việc bán, trao đổi, cho thuê, cho mượn, cho vay, cầm cố, thế chấp, đặt cọc và giao dịch dân sự khác đối với tài sản có giá trị lớn của người được giám hộ phải được sự đồng ý của người giám sát việc giám hộ.
Người giám hộ không được đem tài sản của người được giám hộ tặng cho người khác. Các giao dịch dân sự giữa người giám hộ với người được giám hộ có liên quan đến tài sản của người được giám hộ đều vô hiệu, trừ trường hợp giao dịch được thực hiện vì lợi ích của người được giám hộ và có sự đồng ý của người giám sát việc giám hộ.
2. Người giám hộ của người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi được quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ theo quyết định của Tòa án trong phạm vi được quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 882. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi người giám hộ 1. Người giám hộ được thay đổi trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người giám hộ không còn đủ các điều kiện quy định tại

Section 883. Original section/article: 50. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Người giám hộ là cá nhân chết hoặc bị Tòa án tuyên bố hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, mất tích; pháp nhân làm giám hộ chấm dứt tồn tại;
c) Người giám hộ vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ giám hộ;
d) Người giám hộ đề nghị được thay đổi và có người khác nhận làm giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp thay đổi người giám hộ đương nhiên thì những người được quy định tại

Section 884. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này là người giám hộ đương nhiên; nếu không có người giám hộ đương nhiên thì việc cử, chỉ định người giám hộ được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 885. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Thủ tục thay đổi người giám hộ được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.

Section 886. Original section/article: 61. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển giao giám hộ 
1. Khi thay đổi người giám hộ thì trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày có người giám hộ mới, người đã thực hiện việc giám hộ phải chuyển giao giám hộ cho người thay thế mình.
2. Việc chuyển giao giám hộ phải được lập thành văn bản, trong đó ghi rõ lý do chuyển giao và tình trạng tài sản, vấn đề khác có liên quan của người được giám hộ tại thời điểm chuyển giao. Cơ quan cử, chỉ định người giám hộ, người giám sát việc giám hộ chứng kiến việc chuyển giao giám hộ.
3. Trường hợp thay đổi người giám hộ quy định tại khoản 1

Section 887. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì cơ quan cử, chỉ định người giám hộ lập biên bản, ghi rõ tình trạng tài sản, vấn đề khác có liên quan của người được giám hộ, quyền, nghĩa vụ phát sinh trong quá trình thực hiện việc giám hộ để chuyển giao cho người giám hộ mới với sự chứng kiến của người giám sát việc giám hộ.

Section 888. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt việc giám hộ 1. Việc giám hộ chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người được giám hộ đã có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ;
b) Người được giám hộ chết;
c) Cha, mẹ của người được giám hộ là người chưa thành niên đã có đủ điều kiện để thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình;
d) Người được giám hộ được nhận làm con nuôi.
2. Thủ tục chấm dứt việc giám hộ thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.

Section 889. Original section/article: 63. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả chấm dứt việc giám hộ 
1. Trường hợp người được giám hộ đã có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ thì trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày chấm dứt việc giám hộ, người giám hộ thanh toán tài sản với người được giám hộ, chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ giao dịch dân sự vì lợi ích của người được giám hộ cho người được giám hộ.
2. Trường hợp người được giám hộ chết thì trong thời hạn 03 tháng, kể từ ngày chấm dứt việc giám hộ, người giám hộ thanh toán tài sản với người thừa kế hoặc giao tài sản cho người quản lý di sản của người được giám hộ, chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ giao dịch dân sự vì lợi ích của người được giám hộ cho người thừa kế của người được giám hộ; nếu hết thời hạn đó mà chưa xác định được người thừa kế thì người giám hộ tiếp tục quản lý tài sản của người được giám hộ cho đến khi tài sản được giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật về thừa kế và thông báo cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người được giám hộ.
3. Trường hợp chấm dứt việc giám hộ quy định tại điểm c và điểm d khoản 1

Section 890. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày chấm dứt việc giám hộ, người giám hộ thanh toán tài sản và chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ giao dịch dân sự vì lợi ích của người được giám hộ cho cha, mẹ của người được giám hộ.
4. Việc thanh toán tài sản và chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ quy định tại Điều này được lập thành văn bản với sự giám sát của người giám sát việc giám hộ.
Mục 5. THÔNG BÁO TÌM KIẾM NGƯỜI VẮNG MẶT TẠI NƠI CƯ TRÚ, TUYÊN BỐ MẤT TÍCH, TUYÊN BỐ CHẾT

Section 891. Original section/article: 64. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú và quản lý tài sản của người đó 
Khi một người biệt tích 06 tháng liền trở lên thì những người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú theo quy định của pháp
luật về tố tụng dân sự và có thể yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú quy định tại

Section 892. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 
1. Theo yêu cầu của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, Tòa án giao tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú cho người sau đây quản lý:
a) Đối với tài sản đã được người vắng mặt ủy quyền quản lý thì người được ủy quyền tiếp tục quản lý;
b) Đối với tài sản chung thì do chủ sở hữu chung còn lại quản lý;
c) Đối với tài sản do vợ hoặc chồng đang quản lý thì vợ hoặc chồng tiếp tục quản lý; nếu vợ hoặc chồng chết hoặc mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự thì con thành niên hoặc cha, mẹ của người vắng mặt quản lý.
2. Trường hợp không có những người được quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì Tòa án chỉ định một người trong số những người thân thích của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú quản lý tài sản; nếu không có người thân thích thì Tòa án chỉ định người khác quản lý tài sản.

Section 893. Original section/article: 66. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 1. Giữ gìn, bảo quản tài sản của người vắng mặt như tài sản của chính mình.
2. Bán ngay tài sản là hoa màu, sản phẩm khác có nguy cơ bị hư hỏng.
3. Thực hiện nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng, thanh toán nợ đến hạn, nghĩa vụ tài chính khác của người vắng mặt bằng tài sản của người đó theo quyết định của Tòa án.
4. Giao lại tài sản cho người vắng mặt khi người này trở về và phải thông báo cho Tòa án biết; nếu có lỗi trong việc quản lý tài sản mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.

Section 894. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của người quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 1. Quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt.
2. Trích một phần tài sản của người vắng mặt để thực hiện nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng, nghĩa vụ thanh toán nợ đến hạn, nghĩa vụ tài chính khác của người vắng mặt.
3. Được thanh toán các chi phí cần thiết trong việc quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt.

Section 895. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tuyên bố mất tích 
1. Khi một người biệt tích 02 năm liền trở lên, mặc dù đã áp dụng đầy đủ các biện pháp thông báo, tìm kiếm theo quy định của pháp luật về tố tụng dân sự nhưng vẫn không có tin tức xác thực về việc người đó còn sống hay đã chết thì theo yêu cầu của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, Tòa án có thể tuyên bố người đó mất tích.
Thời hạn 02 năm được tính từ ngày biết được tin tức cuối cùng về người đó; nếu không xác định được ngày có tin tức cuối cùng thì thời hạn này được tính từ ngày đầu tiên của tháng tiếp theo tháng có tin tức cuối cùng; nếu không xác định được ngày, tháng có tin tức cuối cùng thì thời hạn này được tính từ ngày đầu tiên của năm tiếp theo năm có tin tức cuối cùng.
2. Trường hợp vợ hoặc chồng của người bị tuyên bố mất tích xin ly hôn thì Tòa án giải quyết cho ly hôn theo quy định của pháp luật về hôn nhân và gia đình.
3. Quyết định của Tòa án tuyên bố một người mất tích phải được gửi cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú cuối cùng của người bị tuyên bố mất tích để ghi chú theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.

Section 896. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quản lý tài sản của người bị tuyên bố mất tích 
Người đang quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú quy định tại

Section 897. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này tiếp tục quản lý tài sản của người đó khi người đó bị Tòa án tuyên bố mất tích và có các quyền, nghĩa vụ quy định tại

Section 898. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp Tòa án giải quyết cho vợ hoặc chồng của người bị tuyên bố mất tích ly hôn thì tài sản của người mất tích được giao cho con thành niên hoặc cha, mẹ của người mất tích quản lý; nếu không có những người này thì giao cho người thân thích của người mất tích quản lý; nếu không có người thân thích thì Tòa án chỉ định người khác quản lý tài sản.

Section 899. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất tích 
1. Khi người bị tuyên bố mất tích trở về hoặc có tin tức xác thực là người đó còn sống thì theo yêu cầu của người đó hoặc của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất tích đối với người đó.
2. Người bị tuyên bố mất tích trở về được nhận lại tài sản do người quản lý tài sản chuyển giao sau khi đã thanh toán chi phí quản lý.
3. Trường hợp vợ hoặc chồng của người bị tuyên bố mất tích đã được ly hôn thì dù người bị tuyên bố mất tích trở về hoặc có tin tức xác thực là người đó còn sống, quyết định cho ly hôn vẫn có hiệu lực pháp luật.
4. Quyết định của Tòa án hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích phải được gửi cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người bị tuyên bố mất tích để ghi chú theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.

Section 900. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tuyên bố chết 
1. Người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có thể yêu cầu Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Sau 03 năm, kể từ ngày quyết định tuyên bố mất tích của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật mà vẫn không có tin tức xác thực là còn sống;
b) Biệt tích trong chiến tranh sau 05 năm, kể từ ngày chiến tranh kết thúc mà vẫn không có tin tức xác thực là còn sống;
c) Bị tai nạn hoặc thảm họa, thiên tai mà sau 02 năm, kể từ ngày tai nạn hoặc thảm hoạ, thiên tai đó chấm dứt vẫn không có tin tức xác thực là còn sống, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác;
d) Biệt tích 05 năm liền trở lên và không có tin tức xác thực là còn sống; thời hạn này được tính theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 901. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Căn cứ vào các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, Tòa án xác định ngày chết của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết.
3. Quyết định của Tòa án tuyên bố một người là đã chết phải được gửi cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết để ghi chú theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.

Section 902. Original section/article: 72. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quan hệ nhân thân và quan hệ tài sản của người bị Tòa án tuyên bố là đã chết 
1. Khi quyết định của Tòa án tuyên bố một người là đã chết có hiệu lực pháp luật thì quan hệ về hôn nhân, gia đình và các quan hệ nhân thân khác của người đó được giải quyết như đối với người đã chết.
2. Quan hệ tài sản của người bị Tòa án tuyên bố là đã chết được giải quyết như đối với người đã chết; tài sản của người đó được giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật về thừa kế.

Section 903. Original section/article: 73. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố chết 
1. Khi một người bị tuyên bố là đã chết trở về hoặc có tin tức xác thực là người đó còn sống thì theo yêu cầu của người đó hoặc của người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố người đó là đã chết.
2. Quan hệ nhân thân của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết được khôi phục khi Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố người đó là đã chết, trừ trường hợp sau đây:
a) Vợ hoặc chồng của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết đã được Tòa án cho ly hôn theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 904. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì quyết định cho ly hôn vẫn có hiệu lực pháp luật;
b) Vợ hoặc chồng của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết đã kết hôn với người khác thì việc kết hôn đó vẫn có hiệu lực pháp luật.
3. Người bị tuyên bố là đã chết mà còn sống có quyền yêu cầu những người đã nhận tài sản thừa kế trả lại tài sản, giá trị tài sản hiện còn.
Trường hợp người thừa kế của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết biết người này còn sống mà cố tình giấu giếm nhằm hưởng thừa kế thì người đó phải hoàn trả toàn bộ tài sản đã nhận, kể cả hoa lợi, lợi tức; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.
4. Quan hệ tài sản giữa vợ và chồng được giải quyết theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật hôn nhân và gia đình.
5. Quyết định của Tòa án hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết phải được gửi cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú của người bị tuyên bố là đã chết để ghi chú theo quy định của pháp luật về hộ tịch.
Chương IV 
PHÁP NHÂN

Section 905. Original section/article: 74. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Pháp nhân 1. Một tổ chức được công nhận là pháp nhân khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Được thành lập theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan;
b) Có cơ cấu tổ chức theo quy định tại

Section 906. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Có tài sản độc lập với cá nhân, pháp nhân khác và tự chịu trách nhiệm bằng tài sản của mình;
d) Nhân danh mình tham gia quan hệ pháp luật một cách độc lập.
2. Mọi cá nhân, pháp nhân đều có quyền thành lập pháp nhân, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 907. Original section/article: 75. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Pháp nhân thương mại 
1. Pháp nhân thương mại là pháp nhân có mục tiêu chính là tìm kiếm lợi nhuận và lợi nhuận được chia cho các thành viên.
2. Pháp nhân thương mại bao gồm doanh nghiệp và các tổ chức kinh tế khác.
3. Việc thành lập, hoạt động và chấm dứt pháp nhân thương mại được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật doanh nghiệp và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 908. Original section/article: 76. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Pháp nhân phi thương mại 
1. Pháp nhân phi thương mại là pháp nhân không có mục tiêu chính là tìm kiếm lợi nhuận; nếu có lợi nhuận thì cũng không được phân chia cho các thành viên.
2. Pháp nhân phi thương mại bao gồm cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân, tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp, quỹ xã hội, quỹ từ thiện, doanh nghiệp xã hội và các tổ chức phi thương mại khác.
3. Việc thành lập, hoạt động và chấm dứt pháp nhân phi thương mại được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, các luật về tổ chức bộ máy nhà nước và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 909. Original section/article: 77. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều lệ của pháp nhân 1. Pháp nhân phải có điều lệ trong trường hợp pháp luật có quy định.
2. Điều lệ của pháp nhân có những nội dung chủ yếu sau đây:
a) Tên gọi của pháp nhân;
b) Mục đích và phạm vi hoạt động của pháp nhân;
c) Trụ sở chính; chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện, nếu có;
d) Vốn điều lệ, nếu có;
đ) Đại diện theo pháp luật của pháp nhân;
e) Cơ cấu tổ chức; thể thức cử, bầu, bổ nhiệm, miễn nhiệm, cách chức, nhiệm vụ và quyền hạn của các chức danh của cơ quan điều hành và các cơ quan khác;
g) Điều kiện trở thành thành viên hoặc không còn là thành viên của pháp nhân, nếu là pháp nhân có thành viên;
h) Quyền, nghĩa vụ của các thành viên, nếu là pháp nhân có thành viên;
i) Thể thức thông qua quyết định của pháp nhân; nguyên tắc giải quyết tranh chấp nội bộ;
k) Thể thức sửa đổi, bổ sung điều lệ;
l) Ðiều kiện hợp nhất, sáp nhập, chia, tách, chuyển đổi hình thức, giải thể pháp nhân.

Section 910. Original section/article: 78. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tên gọi của pháp nhân 1. Pháp nhân phải có tên gọi bằng tiếng Việt.
2. Tên gọi của pháp nhân phải thể hiện rõ loại hình tổ chức của pháp nhân và phân biệt với các pháp nhân khác trong cùng một lĩnh vực hoạt động.
3. Pháp nhân phải sử dụng tên gọi của mình trong giao dịch dân sự.
4. Tên gọi của pháp nhân được pháp luật công nhận và bảo vệ.

Section 911. Original section/article: 79. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trụ sở của pháp nhân 
1. Trụ sở của pháp nhân là nơi đặt cơ quan điều hành của pháp nhân. Trường hợp thay đổi trụ sở thì pháp nhân phải công bố công khai.
2. Địa chỉ liên lạc của pháp nhân là địa chỉ trụ sở của pháp nhân. Pháp nhân có thể chọn nơi khác làm địa chỉ liên lạc.

Section 912. Original section/article: 80. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quốc tịch của pháp nhân Pháp nhân được thành lập theo pháp luật Việt Nam là pháp nhân Việt Nam.

Section 913. Original section/article: 81. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản của pháp nhân 
Tài sản của pháp nhân bao gồm vốn góp của chủ sở hữu, sáng lập viên, thành viên của pháp nhân và tài sản khác mà pháp nhân được xác lập quyền sở hữu theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan.

Section 914. Original section/article: 82. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thành lập, đăng ký pháp nhân 
1. Pháp nhân được thành lập theo sáng kiến của cá nhân, pháp nhân hoặc theo quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền.
2. Đăng ký pháp nhân bao gồm đăng ký thành lập, đăng ký thay đổi và đăng ký khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Việc đăng ký pháp nhân phải được công bố công khai.

Section 915. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cơ cấu tổ chức của pháp nhân 
1. Pháp nhân phải có cơ quan điều hành. Tổ chức, nhiệm vụ và quyền hạn của cơ quan điều hành của pháp nhân được quy định trong điều lệ của pháp nhân hoặc trong quyết định thành lập pháp nhân.
2. Pháp nhân có cơ quan khác theo quyết định của pháp nhân hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 916. Original section/article: 84. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện của pháp nhân 1. Chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện là đơn vị phụ thuộc của pháp nhân, không phải là pháp nhân.
2. Chi nhánh có nhiệm vụ thực hiện toàn bộ hoặc một phần chức năng của pháp nhân.
3. Văn phòng đại diện có nhiệm vụ đại diện trong phạm vi do pháp nhân giao, bảo vệ lợi ích của pháp nhân.
4. Việc thành lập, chấm dứt chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện của pháp nhân phải được đăng ký theo quy định của pháp luật và công bố công khai.
5. Người đứng đầu chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện thực hiện nhiệm vụ theo ủy quyền của pháp nhân trong phạm vi và thời hạn được ủy quyền.
6. Pháp nhân có quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự phát sinh từ giao dịch dân sự do chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện xác lập, thực hiện.

Section 917. Original section/article: 85. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện của pháp nhân 
Đại diện của pháp nhân có thể là đại diện theo pháp luật hoặc đại diện theo ủy quyền. Người đại diện của pháp nhân phải tuân theo quy định về đại diện tại Chương IX Phần này.

Section 918. Original section/article: 86. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân 
1. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân là khả năng của pháp nhân có các quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân không bị hạn chế, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
2. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân phát sinh từ thời điểm được cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền thành lập hoặc cho phép thành lập; nếu pháp nhân phải đăng ký hoạt động thì năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân phát sinh từ thời điểm ghi vào sổ đăng ký.
3. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân chấm dứt kể từ thời điểm chấm dứt pháp nhân.

Section 919. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm dân sự của pháp nhân 
1. Pháp nhân phải chịu trách nhiệm dân sự về việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự do người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện nhân danh pháp nhân.
Pháp nhân chịu trách nhiệm dân sự về nghĩa vụ do sáng lập viên hoặc đại diện của sáng lập viên xác lập, thực hiện để thành lập, đăng ký pháp nhân, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
2. Pháp nhân chịu trách nhiệm dân sự bằng tài sản của mình; không chịu trách nhiệm thay cho người của pháp nhân đối với nghĩa vụ dân sự do người của pháp nhân xác lập, thực hiện không nhân danh pháp nhân, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
3. Người của pháp nhân không chịu trách nhiệm dân sự thay cho pháp nhân đối với nghĩa vụ dân sự do pháp nhân xác lập, thực hiện, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 920. Original section/article: 88. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp nhất pháp nhân 1. Các pháp nhân có thể hợp nhất thành một pháp nhân mới.
2. Sau khi hợp nhất, các pháp nhân cũ chấm dứt tồn tại kể từ thời điểm pháp nhân mới được thành lập; quyền và nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân cũ được chuyển giao cho pháp nhân mới.

Section 921. Original section/article: 89. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sáp nhập pháp nhân 
1. Một pháp nhân có thể được sáp nhập (sau đây gọi là pháp nhân được sáp nhập) vào một pháp nhân khác (sau đây gọi là pháp nhân sáp nhập).
2. Sau khi sáp nhập, pháp nhân được sáp nhập chấm dứt tồn tại; quyền và nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân được sáp nhập được chuyển giao cho pháp nhân sáp nhập.

Section 922. Original section/article: 90. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chia pháp nhân 1. Một pháp nhân có thể chia thành nhiều pháp nhân.
2. Sau khi chia, pháp nhân bị chia chấm dứt tồn tại; quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân bị chia được chuyển giao cho các pháp nhân mới.

Section 923. Original section/article: 91. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tách pháp nhân 1. Một pháp nhân có thể tách thành nhiều pháp nhân.
2. Sau khi tách, pháp nhân bị tách và pháp nhân được tách thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của mình phù hợp với mục đích hoạt động.

Section 924. Original section/article: 92. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển đổi hình thức của pháp nhân 1. Pháp nhân có thể được chuyển đổi hình thức thành pháp nhân khác.
2. Sau khi chuyển đổi hình thức, pháp nhân được chuyển đổi chấm dứt tồn tại kể từ thời điểm pháp nhân chuyển đổi được thành lập; pháp nhân chuyển đổi kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân được chuyển đổi.

Section 925. Original section/article: 93. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giải thể pháp nhân 1. Pháp nhân giải thể trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo quy định của điều lệ;
b) Theo quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền;
c) Hết thời hạn hoạt động được ghi trong điều lệ hoặc trong quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền;
d) Trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trước khi giải thể, pháp nhân phải thực hiện đầy đủ các nghĩa vụ về tài sản.

Section 926. Original section/article: 94. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thanh toán tài sản của pháp nhân bị giải thể 1. Tài sản của pháp nhân bị giải thể được thanh toán theo thứ tự sau đây:
a) Chi phí giải thể pháp nhân;
b) Các khoản nợ lương, trợ cấp thôi việc, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo hiểm y tế đối với người lao động theo quy định của pháp luật và các quyền lợi khác của người lao động theo thỏa ước lao động tập thể và hợp đồng lao động đã ký kết;
c) Nợ thuế và các khoản nợ khác.
2. Sau khi đã thanh toán hết chi phí giải thể pháp nhân và các khoản nợ, phần còn lại thuộc về chủ sở hữu pháp nhân, các thành viên góp vốn, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Trường hợp quỹ xã hội, quỹ từ thiện đã thanh toán hết chi phí giải thể và các khoản nợ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, tài sản còn lại được chuyển giao cho quỹ khác có cùng mục đích hoạt động.
Trường hợp không có quỹ khác có cùng mục đích hoạt động nhận tài sản chuyển giao hoặc quỹ bị giải thể do hoạt động vi phạm điều cấm của luật, trái đạo đức xã hội thì tài sản của quỹ bị giải thể thuộc về Nhà nước.

Section 927. Original section/article: 95. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phá sản pháp nhân Việc phá sản pháp nhân được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về phá sản.

Section 928. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt tồn tại pháp nhân 1. Pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Hợp nhất, sáp nhập, chia, chuyển đổi hình thức, giải thể pháp nhân theo quy định tại các

Section 929. Original section/article: 88. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 89, 90, 92 và 93 của Bộ luật này;
b) Bị tuyên bố phá sản theo quy định của pháp luật về phá sản.
2. Pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại kể từ thời điểm xóa tên trong sổ đăng ký pháp nhân hoặc từ thời điểm được xác định trong quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền.
3. Khi pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại, tài sản của pháp nhân được giải quyết theo quy định của Bộ luật này, quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
Chương V 
NHÀ NƯỚC CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM, CƠ QUAN NHÀ NƯỚC Ở TRUNG ƯƠNG, Ở ĐỊA PHƯƠNG TRONG QUAN HỆ DÂN SỰ

Section 930. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương trong quan hệ dân sự 
Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương khi tham gia quan hệ dân sự thì bình đẳng với các chủ thể khác và chịu trách nhiệm dân sự theo quy định tại

Section 931. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện tham gia quan hệ dân sự 
Việc đại diện cho Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở trung ương, ở địa phương tham gia quan hệ dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về chức năng, nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn và tổ chức bộ máy của cơ quan nhà nước. Việc đại diện thông qua cá nhân, pháp nhân khác chỉ được thực hiện trong các trường hợp và theo trình tự, thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.

Section 932. Original section/article: 99. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự 
1. Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương chịu trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự của mình bằng tài sản mà mình là đại diện chủ sở hữu và thống nhất quản lý, trừ trường hợp tài sản đã được chuyển giao cho pháp nhân theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Pháp nhân do Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương thành lập không chịu trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ quan hệ dân sự của Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương.
3. Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương không chịu trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân do mình thành lập, bao gồm cả doanh nghiệp nhà nước, trừ trường hợp Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương bảo lãnh cho nghĩa vụ dân sự của pháp nhân này theo quy định của pháp luật.
4. Cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương không chịu trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự của Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước khác ở Trung ương, ở địa phương, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.

Section 933. Original section/article: 100. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự của Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương trong quan hệ dân sự với một bên là nhà nước, pháp nhân, cá nhân nước ngoài 
1. Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương chịu trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự do mình xác lập với nhà nước, pháp nhân, cá nhân nước ngoài trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên có quy định về việc từ bỏ quyền miễn trừ;
b) Các bên trong quan hệ dân sự có thỏa thuận từ bỏ quyền miễn trừ;
c) Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương từ bỏ quyền miễn trừ.
2. Trách nhiệm về nghĩa vụ dân sự của nhà nước, cơ quan nhà nước của nước ngoài khi tham gia quan hệ dân sự với Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, cơ quan nhà nước ở Trung ương, ở địa phương, pháp nhân, cá nhân Việt Nam được áp dụng tương tự khoản 1 Điều này.
Chương VI 
HỘ GIA ĐÌNH, TỔ HỢP TÁC VÀ TỔ CHỨC KHÁC KHÔNG CÓ TƯ CÁCH PHÁP NHÂN TRONG QUAN HỆ DÂN SỰ

Section 934. Original section/article: 101. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chủ thể trong quan hệ dân sự có sự tham gia của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân 
1. Trường hợp hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân tham gia quan hệ dân sự thì các thành viên của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân là chủ thể tham gia xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự hoặc ủy quyền cho người đại diện tham gia xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự. Việc ủy quyền phải được lập thành văn bản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Khi có sự thay đổi người đại diện thì phải thông báo cho bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự biết.
Trường hợp thành viên của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân tham gia quan hệ dân sự không được các thành viên khác ủy quyền làm người đại diện thì thành viên đó là chủ thể của quan hệ dân sự do mình xác lập, thực hiện.
2. Việc xác định chủ thể của quan hệ dân sự có sự tham gia của hộ gia đình sử dụng đất được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật đất đai.

Section 935. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản chung của các thành viên hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân 
1. Việc xác định tài sản chung của các thành viên hộ gia đình, quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với tài sản này được xác định theo quy định tại

Section 936. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Việc xác định tài sản chung của các thành viên tổ hợp tác, quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với tài sản này được xác định theo quy định tại

Section 937. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Việc xác định tài sản chung của các thành viên của tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân, quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với tài sản này được xác định theo thỏa thuận của các thành viên, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 938. Original section/article: 103. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm dân sự của thành viên hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân 
1. Nghĩa vụ dân sự phát sinh từ việc tham gia quan hệ dân sự của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân được bảo đảm thực hiện bằng tài sản chung của các thành viên.
2. Trường hợp các thành viên không có hoặc không đủ tài sản chung để thực hiện nghĩa vụ chung thì người có quyền có thể yêu cầu các thành viên thực hiện nghĩa vụ theo quy định tại

Section 939. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận, hợp đồng hợp tác hoặc luật không có quy định khác thì các thành viên chịu trách nhiệm dân sự quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này theo phần tương ứng với phần đóng góp tài sản của mình, nếu không xác định được theo phần tương ứng thì xác định theo phần bằng nhau.

Section 940. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả pháp lý đối với giao dịch dân sự do thành viên không có quyền đại diện hoặc vượt quá phạm vi đại diện xác lập, thực hiện 
1. Trường hợp thành viên không có quyền đại diện mà xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự nhân danh các thành viên khác của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân hoặc người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện thì hậu quả pháp lý của giao dịch được áp dụng theo quy định tại các

Section 941. Original section/article: 130. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 142 và 143 của Bộ luật này.
2. Giao dịch dân sự do bên không có quyền đại diện hoặc vượt quá phạm vi đại diện xác lập, thực hiện mà gây thiệt hại cho thành viên khác của hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân hoặc người thứ ba thì phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại.
Chương VII 
TÀI SẢN

Section 942. Original section/article: 105. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản 1. Tài sản là vật, tiền, giấy tờ có giá và quyền tài sản.
2. Tài sản bao gồm bất động sản và động sản. Bất động sản và động sản có thể là tài sản hiện có và tài sản hình thành trong tương lai.

Section 943. Original section/article: 106. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đăng ký tài sản 
1. Quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản là bất động sản được đăng ký theo quy định của Bộ luật này và pháp luật về đăng ký tài sản.
2. Quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản là động sản không phải đăng ký, trừ trường hợp pháp luật về đăng ký tài sản có quy định khác.
3. Việc đăng ký tài sản phải được công khai.

Section 944. Original section/article: 107. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bất động sản và động sản 1. Bất động sản bao gồm:
a) Đất đai;
b) Nhà, công trình xây dựng gắn liền với đất đai;
c) Tài sản khác gắn liền với đất đai, nhà, công trình xây dựng;
d) Tài sản khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Động sản là những tài sản không phải là bất động sản.

Section 945. Original section/article: 108. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản hiện có và tài sản hình thành trong tương lai 
1. Tài sản hiện có là tài sản đã hình thành và chủ thể đã xác lập quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản trước hoặc tại thời điểm xác lập giao dịch.
2. Tài sản hình thành trong tương lai bao gồm:
a) Tài sản chưa hình thành;
b) Tài sản đã hình thành nhưng chủ thể xác lập quyền sở hữu tài sản sau thời điểm xác lập giao dịch.

Section 946. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hoa lợi, lợi tức 1. Hoa lợi là sản vật tự nhiên mà tài sản mang lại.
2. Lợi tức là khoản lợi thu được từ việc khai thác tài sản.

Section 947. Original section/article: 110. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Vật chính và vật phụ 1. Vật chính là vật độc lập, có thể khai thác công dụng theo tính năng.
2. Vật phụ là vật trực tiếp phục vụ cho việc khai thác công dụng của vật chính, là một bộ phận của vật chính, nhưng có thể tách rời vật chính.
3. Khi thực hiện nghĩa vụ chuyển giao vật chính thì phải chuyển giao cả vật phụ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 948. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Vật chia được và vật không chia được 1. Vật chia được là vật khi bị phân chia vẫn giữ nguyên tính chất và tính năng sử dụng ban đầu.
2. Vật không chia được là vật khi bị phân chia thì không giữ nguyên được tính chất và tính năng sử dụng ban đầu.
Khi cần phân chia vật không chia được thì phải trị giá thành tiền để chia.

Section 949. Original section/article: 112. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Vật tiêu hao và vật không tiêu hao 
1. Vật tiêu hao là vật khi đã qua một lần sử dụng thì mất đi hoặc không giữ được tính chất, hình dáng và tính năng sử dụng ban đầu.
Vật tiêu hao không thể là đối tượng của hợp đồng cho thuê hoặc hợp đồng cho mượn.
2. Vật không tiêu hao là vật khi đã qua sử dụng nhiều lần mà cơ bản vẫn giữ được tính chất, hình dáng và tính năng sử dụng ban đầu.

Section 950. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Vật cùng loại và vật đặc định 
1. Vật cùng loại là những vật có cùng hình dáng, tính chất, tính năng sử dụng và xác định được bằng những đơn vị đo lường.
Vật cùng loại có cùng chất lượng có thể thay thế cho nhau.
2. Vật đặc định là vật phân biệt được với các vật khác bằng những đặc điểm riêng về ký hiệu, hình dáng, màu sắc, chất liệu, đặc tính, vị trí.
Khi thực hiện nghĩa vụ chuyển giao vật đặc định thì phải giao đúng vật đó.

Section 951. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Vật đồng bộ 
Vật đồng bộ là vật gồm các phần hoặc các bộ phận ăn khớp, liên hệ với nhau hợp thành chỉnh thể mà nếu thiếu một trong các phần, các bộ phận hoặc có phần hoặc bộ phận không đúng quy cách, chủng loại thì không sử dụng được hoặc giá trị sử dụng của vật đó bị giảm sút.
Khi thực hiện nghĩa vụ chuyển giao vật đồng bộ thì phải chuyển giao toàn bộ các phần hoặc các bộ phận hợp thành, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 952. Original section/article: 115. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền tài sản 
Quyền tài sản là quyền trị giá được bằng tiền, bao gồm quyền tài sản đối với đối tượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ, quyền sử dụng đất và các quyền tài sản khác.
Chương VIII 
GIAO DỊCH DÂN SỰ

Section 953. Original section/article: 116. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự 
Giao dịch dân sự là hợp đồng hoặc hành vi pháp lý đơn phương làm phát sinh, thay đổi hoặc chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự.

Section 954. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện có hiệu lực của giao dịch dân sự 1. Giao dịch dân sự có hiệu lực khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Chủ thể có năng lực pháp luật dân sự, năng lực hành vi dân sự phù hợp với giao dịch dân sự được xác lập;
b) Chủ thể tham gia giao dịch dân sự hoàn toàn tự nguyện;
c) Mục đích và nội dung của giao dịch dân sự không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.
2. Hình thức của giao dịch dân sự là điều kiện có hiệu lực của giao dịch dân sự trong trường hợp luật có quy định.

Section 955. Original section/article: 118. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mục đích của giao dịch dân sự 
Mục đích của giao dịch dân sự là lợi ích mà chủ thể mong muốn đạt được khi xác lập giao dịch đó.

Section 956. Original section/article: 119. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức giao dịch dân sự 1. Giao dịch dân sự được thể hiện bằng lời nói, bằng văn bản hoặc bằng hành vi cụ thể.
Giao dịch dân sự thông qua phương tiện điện tử dưới hình thức thông điệp dữ liệu theo quy định của pháp luật về giao dịch điện tử được coi là giao dịch bằng văn bản.
2. Trường hợp luật quy định giao dịch dân sự phải được thể hiện bằng văn bản có công chứng, chứng thực, đăng ký thì phải tuân theo quy định đó.

Section 957. Original section/article: 120. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự có điều kiện 
1. Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về điều kiện phát sinh hoặc hủy bỏ giao dịch dân sự thì khi điều kiện đó xảy ra, giao dịch dân sự phát sinh hoặc hủy bỏ.
2. Trường hợp điều kiện làm phát sinh hoặc hủy bỏ giao dịch dân sự không thể xảy ra được do hành vi cố ý cản trở trực tiếp hoặc gián tiếp của một bên thì coi như điều kiện đó đã xảy ra; trường hợp có sự tác động trực tiếp hoặc gián tiếp của một bên cố ý thúc đẩy cho điều kiện xảy ra thì coi như điều kiện đó không xảy ra.

Section 958. Original section/article: 121. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giải thích giao dịch dân sự 
1. Giao dịch dân sự có nội dung không rõ ràng, khó hiểu, được hiểu theo nhiều nghĩa khác nhau và không thuộc quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này thì việc giải thích giao dịch dân sự đó được thực hiện theo thứ tự sau đây:
a) Theo ý chí đích thực của các bên khi xác lập giao dịch;
b) Theo nghĩa phù hợp với mục đích của giao dịch;
c) Theo tập quán nơi giao dịch được xác lập.
2. Việc giải thích hợp đồng được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 959. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này; việc giải thích nội dung di chúc được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 960. Original section/article: 122. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu 
Giao dịch dân sự không có một trong các điều kiện được quy định tại

Section 961. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì vô hiệu, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này có quy định khác.

Section 962. Original section/article: 123. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do vi phạm điều cấm của luật, trái đạo đức xã hội 
Giao dịch dân sự có mục đích, nội dung vi phạm điều cấm của luật, trái đạo đức xã hội thì vô hiệu.
Điều cấm của luật là những quy định của luật không cho phép chủ thể thực hiện những hành vi nhất định.
Đạo đức xã hội là những chuẩn mực ứng xử chung trong đời sống xã hội, được cộng đồng thừa nhận và tôn trọng.

Section 963. Original section/article: 124. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do giả tạo 
1. Khi các bên xác lập giao dịch dân sự một cách giả tạo nhằm che giấu một giao dịch dân sự khác thì giao dịch dân sự giả tạo vô hiệu, còn giao dịch dân sự bị che giấu vẫn có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp giao dịch đó cũng vô hiệu theo quy định của Bộ luật này hoặc luật khác có liên quan.
2. Trường hợp xác lập giao dịch dân sự giả tạo nhằm trốn tránh nghĩa vụ với người thứ ba thì giao dịch dân sự đó vô hiệu.

Section 964. Original section/article: 125. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự xác lập, thực hiện 
1. Khi giao dịch dân sự do người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi hoặc người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự xác lập, thực hiện thì theo yêu cầu của người đại diện của người đó, Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch đó vô hiệu nếu theo quy định của pháp luật giao dịch này phải do người đại diện của họ xác lập, thực hiện hoặc đồng ý, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Giao dịch dân sự của người quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này không bị vô hiệu trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Giao dịch dân sự của người chưa đủ sáu tuổi, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự nhằm đáp ứng nhu cầu thiết yếu hàng ngày của người đó;
b) Giao dịch dân sự chỉ làm phát sinh quyền hoặc chỉ miễn trừ nghĩa vụ cho người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự với người đã xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch với họ;
c) Giao dịch dân sự được người xác lập giao dịch thừa nhận hiệu lực sau khi đã thành niên hoặc sau khi khôi phục năng lực hành vi dân sự.

Section 965. Original section/article: 126. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do bị nhầm lẫn 
1. Trường hợp giao dịch dân sự được xác lập có sự nhầm lẫn làm cho một bên hoặc các bên không đạt được mục đích của việc xác lập giao dịch thì bên bị nhầm lẫn có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Giao dịch dân sự được xác lập có sự nhầm lẫn không vô hiệu trong trường hợp mục đích xác lập giao dịch dân sự của các bên đã đạt được hoặc các bên có thể khắc phục ngay được sự nhầm lẫn làm cho mục đích của việc xác lập giao dịch dân sự vẫn đạt được.

Section 966. Original section/article: 127. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do bị lừa dối, đe dọa, cưỡng ép 
Khi một bên tham gia giao dịch dân sự do bị lừa dối hoặc bị đe dọa, cưỡng ép thì có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự đó là vô hiệu.
Lừa dối trong giao dịch dân sự là hành vi cố ý của một bên hoặc của người thứ ba nhằm làm cho bên kia hiểu sai lệch về chủ thể, tính chất của đối tượng hoặc nội dung của giao dịch dân sự nên đã xác lập giao dịch đó.
Đe dọa, cưỡng ép trong giao dịch dân sự là hành vi cố ý của một bên hoặc người thứ ba làm cho bên kia buộc phải thực hiện giao dịch dân sự nhằm tránh thiệt hại về tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, uy tín, nhân phẩm, tài sản của mình hoặc của người thân thích của mình.

Section 967. Original section/article: 128. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do người xác lập không nhận thức và làm chủ được hành vi của mình 
Người có năng lực hành vi dân sự nhưng đã xác lập giao dịch vào đúng thời điểm không nhận thức và làm chủ được hành vi của mình thì có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự đó là vô hiệu.

Section 968. Original section/article: 129. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu do không tuân thủ quy định về hình thức 
Giao dịch dân sự vi phạm quy định điều kiện có hiệu lực về hình thức thì vô hiệu, trừ trường hợp sau đây:
1. Giao dịch dân sự đã được xác lập theo quy định phải bằng văn bản nhưng văn bản không đúng quy định của luật mà một bên hoặc các bên đã thực hiện ít nhất hai phần ba nghĩa vụ trong giao dịch thì theo yêu cầu của một bên hoặc các bên, Tòa án ra quyết định công nhận hiệu lực của giao dịch đó.
2. Giao dịch dân sự đã được xác lập bằng văn bản nhưng vi phạm quy định bắt buộc về công chứng, chứng thực mà một bên hoặc các bên đã thực hiện ít nhất hai phần ba nghĩa vụ trong giao dịch thì theo yêu cầu của một bên hoặc các bên, Tòa án ra quyết định công nhận hiệu lực của giao dịch đó. Trong trường hợp này, các bên không phải thực hiện việc công chứng, chứng thực.

Section 969. Original section/article: 130. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu từng phần 
Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu từng phần khi một phần nội dung của giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu nhưng không ảnh hưởng đến hiệu lực của phần còn lại của giao dịch.

Section 970. Original section/article: 131. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả pháp lý của giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu 
1. Giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu không làm phát sinh, thay đổi, chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của các bên kể từ thời điểm giao dịch được xác lập.
2. Khi giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu thì các bên khôi phục lại tình trạng ban đầu, hoàn trả cho nhau những gì đã nhận.
Trường hợp không thể hoàn trả được bằng hiện vật thì trị giá thành tiền để hoàn trả.
3. Bên ngay tình trong việc thu hoa lợi, lợi tức không phải hoàn trả lại hoa lợi, lợi tức đó.
4. Bên có lỗi gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.
5. Việc giải quyết hậu quả của giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu liên quan đến quyền nhân thân do Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định.

Section 971. Original section/article: 132. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu 
1. Thời hiệu yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu quy định tại các

Section 972. Original section/article: 125. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 126, 127, 128 và 129 của Bộ luật này là 02 năm, kể từ ngày:
a) Người đại diện của người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự biết hoặc phải biết người được đại diện tự mình xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch;
b) Người bị nhầm lẫn, bị lừa dối biết hoặc phải biết giao dịch được xác lập do bị nhầm lẫn, do bị lừa dối;
c) Người có hành vi đe dọa, cưỡng ép chấm dứt hành vi đe dọa, cưỡng ép;
d) Người không nhận thức và làm chủ được hành vi của mình xác lập giao dịch;
đ) Giao dịch dân sự được xác lập trong trường hợp giao dịch dân sự không tuân thủ quy định về hình thức.
2. Hết thời hiệu quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này mà không có yêu cầu tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu thì giao dịch dân sự có hiệu lực.
3. Đối với giao dịch dân sự quy định tại

Section 973. Original section/article: 124. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hiệu yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu không bị hạn chế.

Section 974. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ quyền lợi của người thứ ba ngay tình khi giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu 
1. Trường hợp giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu nhưng đối tượng của giao dịch là tài sản không phải đăng ký đã được chuyển giao cho người thứ ba ngay tình thì giao dịch được xác lập, thực hiện với người thứ ba vẫn có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 975. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu nhưng tài sản đã được đăng ký tại cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền, sau đó được chuyển giao bằng một giao dịch dân sự khác cho người thứ ba ngay tình và người này căn cứ vào việc đăng ký đó mà xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch thì giao dịch đó không bị vô hiệu.
Trường hợp tài sản phải đăng ký mà chưa được đăng ký tại cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền thì giao dịch dân sự với người thứ ba bị vô hiệu, trừ trường hợp người thứ ba ngay tình nhận được
tài sản này thông qua bán đấu giá tại tổ chức có thẩm quyền hoặc giao dịch với người mà theo bản án, quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền là chủ sở hữu tài sản nhưng sau đó chủ thể này không phải là chủ sở hữu tài sản do bản án, quyết định bị hủy, sửa.
3. Chủ sở hữu không có quyền đòi lại tài sản từ người thứ ba ngay tình, nếu giao dịch dân sự với người này không bị vô hiệu theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này nhưng có quyền khởi kiện, yêu cầu chủ thể có lỗi dẫn đến việc giao dịch được xác lập với người thứ ba phải hoàn trả những chi phí hợp lý và bồi thường thiệt hại.
Chương IX 
ĐẠI DIỆN

Section 976. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện 
1. Đại diện là việc cá nhân, pháp nhân (sau đây gọi chung là người đại diện) nhân danh và vì lợi ích của cá nhân hoặc pháp nhân khác (sau đây gọi chung là người được đại diện) xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự.
2. Cá nhân, pháp nhân có thể xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự thông qua người đại diện. Cá nhân không được để người khác đại diện cho mình nếu pháp luật quy định họ phải tự mình xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch đó.
3. Trường hợp pháp luật quy định thì người đại diện phải có năng lực pháp luật dân sự, năng lực hành vi dân sự phù hợp với giao dịch dân sự được xác lập, thực hiện.

Section 977. Original section/article: 135. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền đại diện 
Quyền đại diện được xác lập theo ủy quyền giữa người được đại diện và người đại diện (sau đây gọi là đại diện theo ủy quyền); theo quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền, theo điều lệ của pháp nhân hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật (sau đây gọi chung là đại diện theo pháp luật).

Section 978. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện theo pháp luật của cá nhân 1. Cha, mẹ đối với con chưa thành niên.
2. Người giám hộ đối với người được giám hộ. Người giám hộ của người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi là người đại diện theo pháp luật nếu được Tòa án chỉ định.
3. Người do Tòa án chỉ định trong trường hợp không xác định được người đại diện quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này.
4. Người do Tòa án chỉ định đối với người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự.

Section 979. Original section/article: 137. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện theo pháp luật của pháp nhân 1. Người đại diện theo pháp luật của pháp nhân bao gồm:
a) Người được pháp nhân chỉ định theo điều lệ;
b) Người có thẩm quyền đại diện theo quy định của pháp luật;
c) Người do Tòa án chỉ định trong quá trình tố tụng tại Tòa án.
2. Một pháp nhân có thể có nhiều người đại diện theo pháp luật và mỗi người đại diện có quyền đại diện cho pháp nhân theo quy định tại

Section 980. Original section/article: 138. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đại diện theo ủy quyền 
1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân có thể ủy quyền cho cá nhân, pháp nhân khác xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự.
2. Các thành viên hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân có thể thỏa thuận cử cá nhân, pháp nhân khác đại diện theo ủy quyền xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự liên quan đến tài sản chung của các thành viên hộ gia đình, tổ hợp tác, tổ chức khác không có tư cách pháp nhân.
3. Người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi có thể là người đại diện theo ủy quyền, trừ trường hợp pháp luật quy định giao dịch dân sự phải do người từ đủ mười tám tuổi trở lên xác lập, thực hiện.

Section 981. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả pháp lý của hành vi đại diện 
1. Giao dịch dân sự do người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện với người thứ ba phù hợp với phạm vi đại diện làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với người được đại diện.
2. Người đại diện có quyền xác lập, thực hiện hành vi cần thiết để đạt được mục đích của việc đại diện.
3. Trường hợp người đại diện biết hoặc phải biết việc xác lập hành vi đại diện là do bị nhầm lẫn, bị lừa dối, bị đe dọa, cưỡng ép mà vẫn xác lập, thực hiện hành vi thì không làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với người được đại diện, trừ trường hợp người được đại diện biết hoặc phải biết về việc này mà không phản đối.

Section 982. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn đại diện 
1. Thời hạn đại diện được xác định theo văn bản ủy quyền, theo quyết định của cơ quan có thẩm quyền, theo điều lệ của pháp nhân hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp không xác định được thời hạn đại diện theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thời hạn đại diện được xác định như sau:
a) Nếu quyền đại diện được xác định theo giao dịch dân sự cụ thể thì thời hạn đại diện được tính đến thời điểm chấm dứt giao dịch dân sự đó;
b) Nếu quyền đại diện không được xác định với giao dịch dân sự cụ thể thì thời hạn đại diện là 01 năm, kể từ thời điểm phát sinh quyền đại diện.
3. Đại diện theo ủy quyền chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo thỏa thuận;
b) Thời hạn ủy quyền đã hết;
c) Công việc được ủy quyền đã hoàn thành;
d) Người được đại diện hoặc người đại diện đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện việc ủy quyền;
đ) Người được đại diện, người đại diện là cá nhân chết; người được đại diện, người đại diện là pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại;
e) Người đại diện không còn đủ điều kiện quy định tại khoản 3

Section 983. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
g) Căn cứ khác làm cho việc đại diện không thể thực hiện được.
4. Đại diện theo pháp luật chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người được đại diện là cá nhân đã thành niên hoặc năng lực hành vi dân sự đã được khôi phục;
b) Người được đại diện là cá nhân chết;
c) Người được đại diện là pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại;
d) Căn cứ khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này hoặc luật khác có liên quan.

Section 984. Original section/article: 141. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi đại diện 
1. Người đại diện chỉ được xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự trong phạm vi đại diện theo căn cứ sau đây:
a) Quyết định của cơ quan có thẩm quyền;
b) Điều lệ của pháp nhân;
c) Nội dung ủy quyền;
d) Quy định khác của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp không xác định được cụ thể phạm vi đại diện theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì người đại diện theo pháp luật có quyền xác lập, thực hiện mọi giao dịch dân sự vì lợi ích của người được đại diện, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Một cá nhân, pháp nhân có thể đại diện cho nhiều cá nhân hoặc pháp nhân khác nhau nhưng không được nhân danh người được đại diện để xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự với chính mình hoặc với bên thứ ba mà mình cũng là người đại diện của người đó, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
4. Người đại diện phải thông báo cho bên giao dịch biết về phạm vi đại diện của mình.

Section 985. Original section/article: 142. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của giao dịch dân sự do người không có quyền đại diện xác lập, thực hiện 
1. Giao dịch dân sự do người không có quyền đại diện xác lập, thực hiện không làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với người được đại diện, trừ một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người được đại diện đã công nhận giao dịch;
b) Người được đại diện biết mà không phản đối trong một thời hạn hợp lý;
c) Người được đại diện có lỗi dẫn đến việc người đã giao dịch không biết hoặc không thể biết về việc người đã xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự với mình không có quyền đại diện.
2. Trường hợp giao dịch dân sự do người không có quyền đại diện xác lập, thực hiện không làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với người được đại diện thì người không có quyền đại diện vẫn phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với người đã giao dịch với mình, trừ trường hợp người đã giao dịch biết hoặc phải biết về việc không có quyền đại diện mà vẫn giao dịch.
3. Người đã giao dịch với người không có quyền đại diện có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hoặc hủy bỏ giao dịch dân sự đã xác lập và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp người đó biết hoặc phải biết về việc không có quyền đại diện mà vẫn giao dịch hoặc trường hợp quy định tại điểm a khoản 1 Điều này.
4. Trường hợp người không có quyền đại diện và người đã giao dịch cố ý xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự mà gây thiệt hại cho người được đại diện thì phải chịu trách nhiệm liên đới bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 986. Original section/article: 143. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của giao dịch dân sự do người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện 
1. Giao dịch dân sự do người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện không làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ của người được đại diện đối với phần giao dịch được thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện, trừ một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người được đại diện đồng ý;
b) Người được đại diện biết mà không phản đối trong một thời hạn hợp lý;
c) Người được đại diện có lỗi dẫn đến việc người đã giao dịch không biết hoặc không thể biết về việc người đã xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự với mình vượt quá phạm vi đại diện.
2. Trường hợp giao dịch dân sự do người đại diện xác lập, thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện không làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ của người được đại diện đối với phần giao dịch được xác lập, thực hiện vượt quá phạm vi đại diện thì người đại diện phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với người đã giao dịch với mình về phần giao dịch vượt quá phạm vi đại diện, trừ trường hợp người đã giao dịch biết hoặc phải biết về việc vượt quá phạm vi đại diện mà vẫn giao dịch.
3. Người đã giao dịch với người đại diện có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hoặc hủy bỏ giao dịch dân sự đối với phần vượt quá phạm vi đại diện hoặc toàn bộ giao dịch dân sự và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp người đó biết hoặc phải biết về việc vượt quá phạm vi đại diện mà vẫn giao dịch hoặc trường hợp quy định tại điểm a khoản 1 Điều này.
4. Trường hợp người đại diện và người giao dịch với người đại diện cố ý xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự vượt quá phạm vi đại diện mà gây thiệt hại cho người được đại diện thì phải chịu trách nhiệm liên đới bồi thường thiệt hại.
Chương X 
THỜI HẠN VÀ THỜI HIỆU 
Mục 1. THỜI HẠN

Section 987. Original section/article: 144. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn 1. Thời hạn là một khoảng thời gian được xác định từ thời điểm này đến thời điểm khác.
2. Thời hạn có thể được xác định bằng phút, giờ, ngày, tuần, tháng, năm hoặc bằng một sự kiện có thể sẽ xảy ra.

Section 988. Original section/article: 145. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng cách tính thời hạn 
1. Cách tính thời hạn được áp dụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Thời hạn được tính theo dương lịch, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 989. Original section/article: 146. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quy định về thời hạn, thời điểm tính thời hạn 
1. Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về thời hạn là một năm, nửa năm, một tháng, nửa tháng, một tuần, một ngày, một giờ, một phút mà khoảng thời gian diễn ra không liền nhau thì thời hạn đó được tính như sau:
a) Một năm là ba trăm sáu mươi lăm ngày;
b) Nửa năm là sáu tháng;
c) Một tháng là ba mươi ngày;
d) Nửa tháng là mười lăm ngày;
đ) Một tuần là bảy ngày;
e) Một ngày là hai mươi tư giờ;
g) Một giờ là sáu mươi phút;
h) Một phút là sáu mươi giây.
2. Trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận về thời điểm đầu tháng, giữa tháng, cuối tháng thì thời điểm đó được quy định như sau:
a) Đầu tháng là ngày đầu tiên của tháng;
b) Giữa tháng là ngày thứ mười lăm của tháng;
c) Cuối tháng là ngày cuối cùng của tháng.
3. Trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận về thời điểm đầu năm, giữa năm, cuối năm thì thời điểm đó được quy định như sau:
a) Đầu năm là ngày đầu tiên của tháng một;
b) Giữa năm là ngày cuối cùng của tháng sáu;
c) Cuối năm là ngày cuối cùng của tháng mười hai.

Section 990. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm bắt đầu thời hạn 1. Khi thời hạn được xác định bằng phút, giờ thì thời hạn được bắt đầu từ thời điểm đã xác định.
2. Khi thời hạn được xác định bằng ngày, tuần, tháng, năm thì ngày đầu tiên của thời hạn không được tính mà tính từ ngày tiếp theo liền kề ngày được xác định.
3. Khi thời hạn bắt đầu bằng một sự kiện thì ngày xảy ra sự kiện không được tính mà tính từ ngày tiếp theo liền kề của ngày xảy ra sự kiện đó.

Section 991. Original section/article: 148. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Kết thúc thời hạn 
1. Khi thời hạn tính bằng ngày thì thời hạn kết thúc tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày cuối cùng của thời hạn.
2. Khi thời hạn tính bằng tuần thì thời hạn kết thúc tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày tương ứng của tuần cuối cùng của thời hạn.
3. Khi thời hạn tính bằng tháng thì thời hạn kết thúc tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày tương ứng của tháng cuối cùng của thời hạn; nếu tháng kết thúc thời hạn không có ngày tương ứng thì thời hạn kết thúc vào ngày cuối cùng của tháng đó.
4. Khi thời hạn tính bằng năm thì thời hạn kết thúc tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày, tháng tương ứng của năm cuối cùng của thời hạn.
5. Khi ngày cuối cùng của thời hạn là ngày nghỉ cuối tuần hoặc ngày nghỉ lễ thì thời hạn kết thúc tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày làm việc tiếp theo ngày nghỉ đó.
6. Thời điểm kết thúc ngày cuối cùng của thời hạn vào lúc hai mươi tư giờ của ngày đó.
Mục 2. THỜI HIỆU

Section 992. Original section/article: 149. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu 
1. Thời hiệu là thời hạn do luật quy định mà khi kết thúc thời hạn đó thì phát sinh hậu quả pháp lý đối với chủ thể theo điều kiện do luật quy định.
Thời hiệu được áp dụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan.
2. Tòa án chỉ áp dụng quy định về thời hiệu theo yêu cầu áp dụng thời hiệu của một bên hoặc các bên với điều kiện yêu cầu này phải được đưa ra trước khi Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm ra bản án, quyết định giải quyết vụ, việc.
Người được hưởng lợi từ việc áp dụng thời hiệu có quyền từ chối áp dụng thời hiệu, trừ trường hợp việc từ chối đó nhằm mục đích trốn tránh thực hiện nghĩa vụ.

Section 993. Original section/article: 150. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Các loại thời hiệu 
1. Thời hiệu hưởng quyền dân sự là thời hạn mà khi kết thúc thời hạn đó thì chủ thể được hưởng quyền dân sự.
2. Thời hiệu miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự là thời hạn mà khi kết thúc thời hạn đó thì người có nghĩa vụ dân sự được miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
3. Thời hiệu khởi kiện là thời hạn mà chủ thể được quyền khởi kiện để yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết vụ án dân sự bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp bị xâm phạm; nếu thời hạn đó kết thúc thì mất quyền khởi kiện.
4. Thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự là thời hạn mà chủ thể được quyền yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của cá nhân, pháp nhân, lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng; nếu thời hạn đó kết thúc thì mất quyền yêu cầu.

Section 994. Original section/article: 151. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cách tính thời hiệu 
Thời hiệu được tính từ thời điểm bắt đầu ngày đầu tiên của thời hiệu và chấm dứt tại thời điểm kết thúc ngày cuối cùng của thời hiệu.

Section 995. Original section/article: 152. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của thời hiệu hưởng quyền dân sự, miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự 
Trường hợp pháp luật quy định cho các chủ thể được hưởng quyền dân sự hoặc được miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự theo thời hiệu thì chỉ sau khi thời hiệu đó kết thúc, việc hưởng quyền dân sự hoặc miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự mới có hiệu lực.

Section 996. Original section/article: 153. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tính liên tục của thời hiệu hưởng quyền dân sự, miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự 
1. Thời hiệu hưởng quyền dân sự, miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự có tính liên tục từ khi bắt đầu cho đến khi kết thúc; nếu có sự kiện làm gián đoạn thì thời hiệu phải được tính lại từ đầu, sau khi sự kiện làm gián đoạn chấm dứt.
2. Thời hiệu hưởng quyền dân sự, miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự bị gián đoạn khi có một trong các sự kiện sau đây:
a) Có sự giải quyết bằng một quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền đối với quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự đang được áp dụng thời hiệu;
b) Quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự đang được áp dụng thời hiệu mà bị người có quyền, nghĩa vụ liên quan tranh chấp và đã được giải quyết bằng một bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án.
3. Thời hiệu cũng được tính liên tục trong trường hợp việc hưởng quyền dân sự, miễn trừ nghĩa vụ dân sự được chuyển giao hợp pháp cho người khác.

Section 997. Original section/article: 154. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bắt đầu thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự, thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự 
1. Thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự được tính từ ngày người có quyền yêu cầu biết hoặc phải biết quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của mình bị xâm phạm, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự được tính từ ngày phát sinh quyền yêu cầu, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 998. Original section/article: 155. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Không áp dụng thời hiệu khởi kiện Thời hiệu khởi kiện không áp dụng trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền nhân thân không gắn với tài sản.
2. Yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền sở hữu, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
3. Tranh chấp về quyền sử dụng đất theo quy định của Luật đất đai.
4. Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.

Section 999. Original section/article: 156. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời gian không tính vào thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự, thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự 
Thời gian không tính vào thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự, thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự là khoảng thời gian xảy ra một trong các sự kiện sau đây:
1. Sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan làm cho chủ thể có quyền khởi kiện, quyền yêu cầu không thể khởi kiện, yêu cầu trong phạm vi thời hiệu.
Sự kiện bất khả kháng là sự kiện xảy ra một cách khách quan không thể lường trước được và không thể khắc phục được mặc dù đã áp dụng mọi biện pháp cần thiết và khả năng cho phép.
Trở ngại khách quan là những trở ngại do hoàn cảnh khách quan tác động làm cho người có quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự không thể biết về việc quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của mình bị xâm phạm hoặc không thể thực hiện được quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự của mình;
2. Chưa có người đại diện trong trường hợp người có quyền khởi kiện, người có quyền yêu cầu là người chưa thành niên, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi hoặc bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự;
3. Người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự chưa có người đại diện khác thay thế trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người đại diện chết nếu là cá nhân, chấm dứt tồn tại nếu là pháp nhân; b) Người đại diện vì lý do chính đáng mà không thể tiếp tục đại diện được.

Section 1000. Original section/article: 157. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bắt đầu lại thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự 1. Thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự bắt đầu lại trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Bên có nghĩa vụ đã thừa nhận một phần hoặc toàn bộ nghĩa vụ của mình đối với người khởi kiện;
b) Bên có nghĩa vụ thừa nhận hoặc thực hiện xong một phần nghĩa vụ của mình đối với người khởi kiện;
c) Các bên đã tự hòa giải với nhau.
2. Thời hiệu khởi kiện vụ án dân sự bắt đầu lại kể từ ngày tiếp theo sau ngày xảy ra sự kiện quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.
Phần thứ hai 
QUYỀN SỞ HỮU VÀ QUYỀN KHÁC ĐỐI VỚI TÀI SẢN 
Chương XI 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG 
Mục 1. NGUYÊN TẮC XÁC LẬP, THỰC HIỆN QUYỀN SỞ HỮU, QUYỀN KHÁC ĐỐI VỚI TÀI SẢN

Section 1001. Original section/article: 158. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sở hữu 
Quyền sở hữu bao gồm quyền chiếm hữu, quyền sử dụng và quyền định đoạt tài sản của chủ sở hữu theo quy định của luật.

Section 1002. Original section/article: 159. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền khác đối với tài sản 
1. Quyền khác đối với tài sản là quyền của chủ thể trực tiếp nắm giữ, chi phối tài sản thuộc quyền sở hữu của chủ thể khác.
2. Quyền khác đối với tài sản bao gồm:
a) Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề;
b) Quyền hưởng dụng;
c) Quyền bề mặt.

Section 1003. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc xác lập, thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản 
1. Quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản được xác lập, thực hiện trong trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định.
Quyền khác đối với tài sản vẫn có hiệu lực trong trường hợp quyền sở hữu được chuyển giao, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
2. Chủ sở hữu được thực hiện mọi hành vi theo ý chí của mình đối với tài sản nhưng không được trái với quy định của luật, gây thiệt hại hoặc làm ảnh hưởng đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.
3. Chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản được thực hiện mọi hành vi trong phạm vi quyền được quy định tại Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan nhưng không được gây thiệt hại hoặc làm ảnh hưởng đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của chủ sở hữu tài sản hoặc của người khác.

Section 1004. Original section/article: 161. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm xác lập quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản 
1. Thời điểm xác lập quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan; trường hợp luật không có quy định thì thực hiện theo thỏa thuận của các bên; trường hợp luật không quy định và các bên không có thỏa thuận thì thời điểm xác lập quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản là thời điểm tài sản được chuyển giao.
Thời điểm tài sản được chuyển giao là thời điểm bên có quyền hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ chiếm hữu tài sản.
2. Trường hợp tài sản chưa được chuyển giao mà phát sinh hoa lợi, lợi tức thì hoa lợi, lợi tức thuộc về bên có tài sản chuyển giao, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1005. Original section/article: 162. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chịu rủi ro về tài sản 
1. Chủ sở hữu phải chịu rủi ro về tài sản thuộc sở hữu của mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
2. Chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản phải chịu rủi ro về tài sản trong phạm vi quyền của mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác với chủ sở hữu tài sản hoặc Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
Mục 2. BẢO VỆ QUYỀN SỞ HỮU, QUYỀN KHÁC ĐỐI VỚI TÀI SẢN

Section 1006. Original section/article: 163. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản 1. Không ai có thể bị hạn chế, bị tước đoạt trái luật quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản.
2. Trường hợp thật cần thiết vì lý do quốc phòng, an ninh hoặc vì lợi ích quốc gia, tình trạng khẩn cấp, phòng chống thiên tai, Nhà nước trưng mua hoặc trưng dụng có bồi thường tài sản của tổ chức, cá nhân theo giá thị trường.

Section 1007. Original section/article: 164. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Biện pháp bảo vệ quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản 
1. Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản có quyền tự bảo vệ, ngăn chặn bất kỳ người nào có hành vi xâm phạm quyền của mình bằng những biện pháp không trái với quy định của pháp luật.
2. Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác buộc người có hành vi xâm phạm quyền phải trả lại tài sản, chấm dứt hành vi cản trở trái pháp luật việc thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1008. Original section/article: 165. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu có căn cứ pháp luật 1. Chiếm hữu có căn cứ pháp luật là việc chiếm hữu tài sản trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Chủ sở hữu chiếm hữu tài sản;
b) Người được chủ sở hữu ủy quyền quản lý tài sản;
c) Người được chuyển giao quyền chiếm hữu thông qua giao dịch dân sự phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật;
d) Người phát hiện và giữ tài sản vô chủ, tài sản không xác định được ai là chủ sở hữu, tài sản bị đánh rơi, bị bỏ quên, bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm phù hợp với điều kiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan;
đ) Người phát hiện và giữ gia súc, gia cầm, vật nuôi dưới nước bị thất lạc phù hợp với điều kiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan;
e) Trường hợp khác do pháp luật quy định.
2. Việc chiếm hữu tài sản không phù hợp với quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này là chiếm hữu không có căn cứ pháp luật.

Section 1009. Original section/article: 166. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đòi lại tài sản 
1. Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản có quyền đòi lại tài sản từ người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản, người được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật.
2. Chủ sở hữu không có quyền đòi lại tài sản từ sự chiếm hữu của chủ thể đang có quyền khác đối với tài sản đó.

Section 1010. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đòi lại động sản không phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu từ người chiếm hữu ngay tình 
Chủ sở hữu có quyền đòi lại động sản không phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu từ người chiếm hữu ngay tình trong trường hợp người chiếm hữu ngay tình có được động sản này thông qua hợp đồng không có đền bù với người không có quyền định đoạt tài sản; trường hợp hợp đồng này là hợp đồng có đền bù thì chủ sở hữu có quyền đòi lại động sản nếu động sản đó bị lấy cắp, bị mất hoặc trường hợp khác bị chiếm hữu ngoài ý chí của chủ sở hữu.

Section 1011. Original section/article: 168. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đòi lại động sản phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu hoặc bất động sản từ người chiếm hữu ngay tình 
Chủ sở hữu được đòi lại động sản phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu hoặc bất động sản từ người chiếm hữu ngay tình, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1012. Original section/article: 169. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu chấm dứt hành vi cản trở trái pháp luật đối với việc thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản 
Khi thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản, chủ thể có quyền yêu cầu người có hành vi cản trở trái pháp luật phải chấm dứt hành vi đó hoặc có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác buộc người đó chấm dứt hành vi vi phạm.

Section 1013. Original section/article: 170. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại 
Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản có quyền yêu cầu người có hành vi xâm phạm quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản bồi thường thiệt hại.
Mục 3. GIỚI HẠN QUYỀN SỞ HỮU, QUYỀN KHÁC ĐỐI VỚI TÀI SẢN

Section 1014. Original section/article: 171. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản trong trường hợp xảy ra tình thế cấp thiết 
1. Tình thế cấp thiết là tình thế của người vì muốn tránh một nguy cơ đang thực tế đe dọa trực tiếp lợi ích công cộng, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của mình hoặc của người khác mà không còn cách nào khác là phải có hành động gây một thiệt hại nhỏ hơn thiệt hại cần ngăn chặn.
2. Trong tình thế cấp thiết, chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản không được cản trở người khác dùng tài sản của mình hoặc cản trở người khác gây thiệt hại đối với tài sản đó để ngăn chặn, làm giảm mối nguy hiểm hoặc thiệt hại lớn hơn có nguy cơ xảy ra.
3. Gây thiệt hại trong tình thế cấp thiết không phải là hành vi xâm phạm quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản. Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản bị thiệt hại trong tình thế cấp thiết được bồi thường thiệt hại theo quy định tại

Section 1015. Original section/article: 172. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bảo vệ môi trường 
Khi thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản thì chủ thể phải tuân theo quy định của pháp luật về bảo vệ môi trường; nếu làm ô nhiễm môi trường thì phải chấm dứt hành vi gây ô nhiễm, thực hiện các biện pháp để khắc phục hậu quả và bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1016. Original section/article: 173. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ tôn trọng, bảo đảm trật tự, an toàn xã hội 
Khi thực hiện quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản thì chủ thể phải tôn trọng, bảo đảm trật tự, an toàn xã hội, không được lạm dụng quyền để gây mất trật tự, an toàn xã hội, làm thiệt hại đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.

Section 1017. Original section/article: 174. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ tôn trọng quy tắc xây dựng 
Khi xây dựng công trình, chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản phải tuân theo pháp luật về xây dựng, bảo đảm an toàn, không được xây vượt quá độ cao, khoảng cách mà pháp luật về xây dựng quy định và không được xâm phạm đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của chủ sở hữu, người có quyền khác đối với tài sản là bất động sản liền kề và xung quanh.

Section 1018. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ranh giới giữa các bất động sản 
1. Ranh giới giữa các bất động sản liền kề được xác định theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền.
Ranh giới cũng có thể được xác định theo tập quán hoặc theo ranh giới đã tồn tại từ 30 năm trở lên mà không có tranh chấp.
Không được lấn, chiếm, thay đổi mốc giới ngăn cách, kể cả trường hợp ranh giới là kênh, mương, hào, rãnh, bờ ruộng. Mọi chủ thể có nghĩa vụ tôn trọng, duy trì ranh giới chung.
2. Người sử dụng đất được sử dụng không gian và lòng đất theo chiều thẳng đứng từ ranh giới của thửa đất phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật và không được làm ảnh hưởng đến việc sử dụng đất của người khác.
Người sử dụng đất chỉ được trồng cây và làm các việc khác trong khuôn viên đất thuộc quyền sử dụng của mình và theo ranh giới đã được xác định; nếu rễ cây, cành cây vượt quá ranh giới thì phải xén rễ, cắt, tỉa cành phần vượt quá, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1019. Original section/article: 176. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mốc giới ngăn cách các bất động sản 
1. Chủ sở hữu bất động sản chỉ được dựng cột mốc, hàng rào, trồng cây, xây tường ngăn trên phần đất thuộc quyền sử dụng của mình.
2. Các chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề có thể thỏa thuận với nhau về việc dựng cột mốc, hàng rào, trồng cây, xây tường ngăn trên ranh giới để làm mốc giới ngăn cách giữa các bất động sản; những vật mốc giới này là sở hữu chung của các chủ thể đó.
Trường hợp mốc giới ngăn cách chỉ do một bên tạo nên trên ranh giới và được chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề đồng ý thì mốc giới ngăn cách đó là sở hữu chung, chi phí để xây dựng do bên tạo nên chịu, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác; nếu chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề không đồng ý mà có lý do chính đáng thì chủ sở hữu đã dựng cột mốc, hàng rào, trồng cây, xây tường ngăn phải dỡ bỏ.
3. Đối với mốc giới là tường nhà chung, chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề không được trổ cửa sổ, lỗ thông khí hoặc đục tường để đặt kết cấu xây dựng, trừ trường hợp được chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề đồng ý.
Trường hợp nhà xây riêng biệt nhưng tường sát liền nhau thì chủ sở hữu cũng chỉ được đục tường, đặt kết cấu xây dựng đến giới hạn ngăn cách tường của mình.
Đối với cây là mốc giới chung, các bên đều có nghĩa vụ bảo vệ; hoa lợi thu được từ cây được chia đều, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1020. Original section/article: 177. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm an toàn trong trường hợp cây cối, công trình có nguy cơ gây thiệt hại 
1. Trường hợp cây cối, công trình xây dựng có nguy cơ sập đổ xuống bất động sản liền kề và xung quanh thì chủ sở hữu tài sản thực hiện ngay các biện pháp khắc phục, chặt cây, sửa chữa hoặc dỡ bỏ công trình xây dựng đó theo yêu cầu của chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề và xung quanh hoặc theo yêu cầu của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền; nếu không tự nguyện thực hiện thì chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề và xung quanh có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền cho chặt cây, phá dỡ. Chi phí chặt cây, phá dỡ do chủ sở hữu cây cối, công trình xây dựng chịu.
2. Khi đào giếng, đào ao hoặc xây dựng công trình dưới mặt đất, chủ sở hữu công trình phải đào, xây cách mốc giới một khoảng cách do pháp luật về xây dựng quy định.
Khi xây dựng công trình vệ sinh, kho chứa chất độc hại và các công trình khác mà việc sử dụng có khả năng gây ô nhiễm môi trường thì chủ sở hữu tài sản đó phải xây cách mốc giới một khoảng cách và ở vị trí hợp lý, phải bảo đảm vệ sinh, an toàn và không làm ảnh hưởng đến chủ sở hữu bất động sản khác.
3. Trường hợp gây thiệt hại cho chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề và xung quanh quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì chủ sở hữu cây cối, công trình phải bồi thường.

Section 1021. Original section/article: 178. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trổ cửa nhìn sang bất động sản liền kề 
1. Chủ sở hữu nhà chỉ được trổ cửa ra vào, cửa sổ quay sang nhà bên cạnh, nhà đối diện và đường đi chung theo quy định của pháp luật về xây dựng.
2. Mặt dưới mái che trên cửa ra vào, mặt dưới mái che cửa sổ quay ra đường đi chung phải cách mặt đất từ 2,5 mét trở lên.
Chương XII 
CHIẾM HỮU

Section 1022. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Khái niệm chiếm hữu 
1. Chiếm hữu là việc chủ thể nắm giữ, chi phối tài sản một cách trực tiếp hoặc gián tiếp như chủ thể có quyền đối với tài sản.
2. Chiếm hữu bao gồm chiếm hữu của chủ sở hữu và chiếm hữu của người không phải là chủ sở hữu.
Việc chiếm hữu của người không phải là chủ sở hữu không thể là căn cứ xác lập quyền sở hữu, trừ trường hợp quy định tại các

Section 1023. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233 và 236 của Bộ luật này.

Section 1024. Original section/article: 180. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu ngay tình 
Chiếm hữu ngay tình là việc chiếm hữu mà người chiếm hữu có căn cứ để tin rằng mình có quyền đối với tài sản đang chiếm hữu.

Section 1025. Original section/article: 181. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu không ngay tình 
Chiếm hữu không ngay tình là việc chiếm hữu mà người chiếm hữu biết hoặc phải biết rằng mình không có quyền đối với tài sản đang chiếm hữu.

Section 1026. Original section/article: 182. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu liên tục 
1. Chiếm hữu liên tục là việc chiếm hữu được thực hiện trong một khoảng thời gian mà không có tranh chấp về quyền đối với tài sản đó hoặc có tranh chấp nhưng chưa được giải quyết bằng một bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác, kể cả khi tài sản được giao cho người khác chiếm hữu.
2. Việc chiếm hữu không liên tục không được coi là căn cứ để suy đoán về tình trạng và quyền của người chiếm hữu được quy định tại

Section 1027. Original section/article: 183. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu công khai 
1. Chiếm hữu công khai là việc chiếm hữu được thực hiện một cách minh bạch, không giấu giếm; tài sản đang chiếm hữu được sử dụng theo tính năng, công dụng và được người chiếm hữu bảo quản, giữ gìn như tài sản của chính mình.
2. Việc chiếm hữu không công khai không được coi là căn cứ để suy đoán về tình trạng và quyền của người chiếm hữu được quy định tại

Section 1028. Original section/article: 184. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Suy đoán về tình trạng và quyền của người chiếm hữu 
1. Người chiếm hữu được suy đoán là ngay tình; người nào cho rằng người chiếm hữu không ngay tình thì phải chứng minh.
2. Trường hợp có tranh chấp về quyền đối với tài sản thì người chiếm hữu được suy đoán là người có quyền đó. Người có tranh chấp với người chiếm hữu phải chứng minh về việc người chiếm hữu không có quyền.
3. Người chiếm hữu ngay tình, liên tục, công khai được áp dụng thời hiệu hưởng quyền và được hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức mà tài sản mang lại theo quy định của Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 1029. Original section/article: 185. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ việc chiếm hữu 
Trường hợp việc chiếm hữu bị người khác xâm phạm thì người chiếm hữu có quyền yêu cầu người có hành vi xâm phạm phải chấm dứt hành vi, khôi phục tình trạng ban đầu, trả lại tài sản và bồi thường thiệt hại hoặc yêu cầu Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác buộc người đó chấm dứt hành vi, khôi phục tình trạng ban đầu, trả lại tài sản và bồi thường thiệt hại.
Chương XIII 
QUYỀN SỞ HỮU 
Mục 1. NỘI DUNG QUYỀN SỞ HỮU 
Tiểu mục 1. QUYỀN CHIẾM HỮU

Section 1030. Original section/article: 186. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền chiếm hữu của chủ sở hữu 
Chủ sở hữu được thực hiện mọi hành vi theo ý chí của mình để nắm giữ, chi phối tài sản của mình nhưng không được trái pháp luật, đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1031. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền chiếm hữu của người được chủ sở hữu ủy quyền quản lý tài sản 
1. Người được chủ sở hữu ủy quyền quản lý tài sản thực hiện việc chiếm hữu tài sản đó trong phạm vi, theo cách thức, thời hạn do chủ sở hữu xác định.
2. Người được chủ sở hữu ủy quyền quản lý tài sản không thể trở thành chủ sở hữu đối với tài sản được giao theo quy định tại

Section 1032. Original section/article: 188. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền chiếm hữu của người được giao tài sản thông qua giao dịch dân sự 
1. Khi chủ sở hữu giao tài sản cho người khác thông qua giao dịch dân sự mà nội dung không bao gồm việc chuyển quyền sở hữu thì người được giao tài sản phải thực hiện việc chiếm hữu tài sản đó phù hợp với mục đích, nội dung của giao dịch.
2. Người được giao tài sản có quyền sử dụng tài sản được giao, được chuyển quyền chiếm hữu, sử dụng tài sản đó cho người khác nếu được chủ sở hữu đồng ý.
3. Người được giao tài sản không thể trở thành chủ sở hữu đối với tài sản được giao theo quy định tại

Section 1033. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Tiểu mục 2. QUYỀN SỬ DỤNG

Section 1034. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sử dụng Quyền sử dụng là quyền khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản.
Quyền sử dụng có thể được chuyển giao cho người khác theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1035. Original section/article: 190. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sử dụng của chủ sở hữu 
Chủ sở hữu được sử dụng tài sản theo ý chí của mình nhưng không được gây thiệt hại hoặc làm ảnh hưởng đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.

Section 1036. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sử dụng của người không phải là chủ sở hữu 
Người không phải là chủ sở hữu được sử dụng tài sản theo thỏa thuận với chủ sở hữu hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
Tiểu mục 3. QUYỀN ĐỊNH ĐOẠT

Section 1037. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền định đoạt 
Quyền định đoạt là quyền chuyển giao quyền sở hữu tài sản, từ bỏ quyền sở hữu, tiêu dùng hoặc tiêu hủy tài sản.

Section 1038. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện thực hiện quyền định đoạt 
Việc định đoạt tài sản phải do người có năng lực hành vi dân sự thực hiện không trái quy định của pháp luật.
Trường hợp pháp luật có quy định trình tự, thủ tục định đoạt tài sản thì phải tuân theo trình tự, thủ tục đó.

Section 1039. Original section/article: 194. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền định đoạt của chủ sở hữu 
Chủ sở hữu có quyền bán, trao đổi, tặng cho, cho vay, để thừa kế, từ bỏ quyền sở hữu, tiêu dùng, tiêu hủy hoặc thực hiện các hình thức định đoạt khác phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật đối với tài sản.

Section 1040. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền định đoạt của người không phải là chủ sở hữu 
Người không phải là chủ sở hữu tài sản chỉ có quyền định đoạt tài sản theo ủy quyền của chủ sở hữu hoặc theo quy định của luật.

Section 1041. Original section/article: 196. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hạn chế quyền định đoạt 1. Quyền định đoạt chỉ bị hạn chế trong trường hợp do luật quy định.
2. Khi tài sản đem bán là tài sản thuộc di tích lịch sử - văn hóa theo quy định của Luật di sản văn hóa thì Nhà nước có quyền ưu tiên mua.
Trường hợp cá nhân, pháp nhân có quyền ưu tiên mua đối với tài sản nhất định theo quy định của pháp luật thì khi bán tài sản, chủ sở hữu phải dành quyền ưu tiên mua cho các chủ thể đó.
Mục 2. HÌNH THỨC SỞ HỮU 
Tiểu mục 1. SỞ HỮU TOÀN DÂN

Section 1042. Original section/article: 197. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân 
Đất đai, tài nguyên nước, tài nguyên khoáng sản, nguồn lợi ở vùng biển, vùng trời, tài nguyên thiên nhiên khác và các tài sản do Nhà nước đầu tư, quản lý là tài sản công thuộc sở hữu toàn dân do Nhà nước đại diện chủ sở hữu và thống nhất quản lý.

Section 1043. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện quyền của chủ sở hữu đối với tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân 
1. Nhà nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là đại diện, thực hiện quyền của chủ sở hữu đối với tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân.
2. Chính phủ thống nhất quản lý và bảo đảm sử dụng đúng mục đích, hiệu quả và tiết kiệm tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân.

Section 1044. Original section/article: 199. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân 
Việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân được thực hiện trong phạm vi và theo trình tự do pháp luật quy định.

Section 1045. Original section/article: 200. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện quyền sở hữu toàn dân đối với tài sản được đầu tư vào doanh nghiệp 
1. Khi tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân được đầu tư vào doanh nghiệp thì Nhà nước thực hiện quyền của chủ sở hữu đối với tài sản đó theo quy định của pháp luật về doanh nghiệp, quản lý, sử dụng vốn nhà nước đầu tư vào sản xuất, kinh doanh tại doanh nghiệp và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
2. Doanh nghiệp thực hiện việc quản lý, sử dụng vốn, đất đai, tài nguyên và các tài sản khác do Nhà nước đầu tư theo quy định của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1046. Original section/article: 201. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện quyền sở hữu toàn dân đối với tài sản được giao cho cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân 
1. Khi tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân được giao cho cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân thì Nhà nước thực hiện quyền kiểm tra, giám sát việc quản lý, sử dụng tài sản đó.
2. Cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân thực hiện việc quản lý, sử dụng đúng mục đích, theo quy định của pháp luật đối với tài sản được Nhà nước giao.

Section 1047. Original section/article: 202. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện quyền sở hữu toàn dân đối với tài sản được giao cho tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp 
1. Khi tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân được giao cho tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp thì Nhà nước thực hiện quyền kiểm tra, giám sát việc quản lý, sử dụng tài sản đó.
2. Tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp thực hiện việc quản lý, sử dụng tài sản được Nhà nước giao đúng mục đích, phạm vi, theo cách thức, trình tự do pháp luật quy định, phù hợp với chức năng, nhiệm vụ được quy định trong điều lệ.

Section 1048. Original section/article: 203. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của cá nhân, pháp nhân đối với việc sử dụng, khai thác tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân 
Cá nhân, pháp nhân được sử dụng đất, khai thác nguồn lợi thủy sản, tài nguyên thiên nhiên và các tài sản khác thuộc sở hữu toàn dân đúng mục đích, có hiệu quả, thực hiện đầy đủ nghĩa vụ đối với Nhà nước theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1049. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân chưa được giao cho cá nhân, pháp nhân quản lý 
Đối với tài sản thuộc sở hữu toàn dân mà chưa được giao cho cá nhân, pháp nhân quản lý thì Chính phủ tổ chức thực hiện việc bảo vệ, điều tra, khảo sát và lập quy hoạch đưa vào khai thác.
Tiểu mục 2. SỞ HỮU RIÊNG

Section 1050. Original section/article: 205. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu riêng và tài sản thuộc sở hữu riêng 1. Sở hữu riêng là sở hữu của một cá nhân hoặc một pháp nhân.
2. Tài sản hợp pháp thuộc sở hữu riêng không bị hạn chế về số lượng, giá trị.

Section 1051. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu riêng 
1. Chủ sở hữu có quyền chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu riêng nhằm phục vụ nhu cầu sinh hoạt, tiêu dùng, sản xuất, kinh doanh và các mục đích khác không trái pháp luật.
2. Việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu riêng không được gây thiệt hại hoặc làm ảnh hưởng đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.
Tiểu mục 3. SỞ HỮU CHUNG

Section 1052. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung và các loại sở hữu chung 
1. Sở hữu chung là sở hữu của nhiều chủ thể đối với tài sản.
2. Sở hữu chung bao gồm sở hữu chung theo phần và sở hữu chung hợp nhất.

Section 1053. Original section/article: 208. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu chung 
Quyền sở hữu chung được xác lập theo thỏa thuận, theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc theo tập quán.

Section 1054. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung theo phần 
1. Sở hữu chung theo phần là sở hữu chung mà trong đó phần quyền sở hữu của mỗi chủ sở hữu được xác định đối với tài sản chung.
2. Mỗi chủ sở hữu chung theo phần có quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung tương ứng với phần quyền sở hữu của mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1055. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung hợp nhất 
1. Sở hữu chung hợp nhất là sở hữu chung mà trong đó, phần quyền sở hữu của mỗi chủ sở hữu chung không được xác định đối với tài sản chung.
Sở hữu chung hợp nhất bao gồm sở hữu chung hợp nhất có thể phân chia và sở hữu chung hợp nhất không phân chia.
2. Các chủ sở hữu chung hợp nhất có quyền, nghĩa vụ ngang nhau đối với tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung.

Section 1056. Original section/article: 211. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung của cộng đồng 
1. Sở hữu chung của cộng đồng là sở hữu của dòng họ, thôn, ấp, bản, làng, buôn, phum, sóc, cộng đồng tôn giáo và cộng đồng dân cư khác đối với tài sản được hình thành theo tập quán, tài sản do các thành viên của cộng đồng cùng nhau đóng góp, quyên góp, được tặng cho chung hoặc từ các nguồn khác phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật nhằm mục đích thỏa mãn lợi ích chung hợp pháp của cộng đồng.
2. Các thành viên của cộng đồng cùng quản lý, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản chung theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo tập quán vì lợi ích chung của cộng đồng nhưng không được vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.
3. Tài sản chung của cộng đồng là tài sản chung hợp nhất không phân chia.

Section 1057. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung của các thành viên gia đình 
1. Tài sản của các thành viên gia đình cùng sống chung gồm tài sản do các thành viên đóng góp, cùng nhau tạo lập nên và những tài sản khác được xác lập quyền sở hữu theo quy định của Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan.
2. Việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản chung của các thành viên gia đình được thực hiện theo phương thức thỏa thuận. Trường hợp định đoạt tài sản là bất động sản, động sản có đăng ký, tài sản là nguồn thu nhập chủ yếu của gia đình phải có sự thỏa thuận của tất cả các thành viên gia đình là người thành niên có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì áp dụng quy định về sở hữu chung theo phần được quy định tại Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1058. Original section/article: 213. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung của vợ chồng 1. Sở hữu chung của vợ chồng là sở hữu chung hợp nhất có thể phân chia.
2. Vợ chồng cùng nhau tạo lập, phát triển khối tài sản chung; có quyền ngang nhau trong việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản chung.
3. Vợ chồng thỏa thuận hoặc ủy quyền cho nhau chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản chung.
4. Tài sản chung của vợ chồng có thể phân chia theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quyết định của Tòa án.
5. Trường hợp vợ chồng lựa chọn chế độ tài sản theo thỏa thuận theo quy định của pháp luật về hôn nhân và gia đình thì tài sản chung của vợ chồng được áp dụng theo chế độ tài sản này.

Section 1059. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung trong nhà chung cư 
1. Phần diện tích, trang thiết bị và các tài sản khác dùng chung trong nhà chung cư theo quy định của Luật nhà ở thuộc sở hữu chung hợp nhất của tất cả chủ sở hữu các căn hộ trong nhà đó và không phân chia, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác hoặc tất cả các chủ sở hữu có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Chủ sở hữu các căn hộ trong nhà chung cư có quyền, nghĩa vụ ngang nhau trong việc quản lý, sử dụng tài sản quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác hoặc có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Trường hợp nhà chung cư bị tiêu hủy thì quyền của chủ sở hữu căn hộ chung cư thực hiện theo quy định của luật.

Section 1060. Original section/article: 215. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sở hữu chung hỗn hợp 
1. Sở hữu chung hỗn hợp là sở hữu đối với tài sản do các chủ sở hữu thuộc các thành phần kinh tế khác nhau góp vốn để sản xuất, kinh doanh thu lợi nhuận.
2. Tài sản được hình thành từ nguồn vốn góp của các chủ sở hữu, lợi nhuận hợp pháp thu được từ hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh hoặc từ nguồn khác phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật là tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung hỗn hợp.
3. Việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng, định đoạt tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung hỗn hợp phải tuân theo quy định tại

Section 1061. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và quy định của pháp luật có liên quan đến việc góp vốn, tổ chức, hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh, quản lý, điều hành, trách nhiệm về tài sản và phân chia lợi nhuận.

Section 1062. Original section/article: 216. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quản lý tài sản chung 
Các chủ sở hữu chung cùng quản lý tài sản chung theo nguyên tắc nhất trí, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1063. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sử dụng tài sản chung 
1. Mỗi chủ sở hữu chung theo phần có quyền khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản chung tương ứng với phần quyền sở hữu của mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Các chủ sở hữu chung hợp nhất có quyền ngang nhau trong việc khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản chung, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1064. Original section/article: 218. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Định đoạt tài sản chung 
1. Mỗi chủ sở hữu chung theo phần có quyền định đoạt phần quyền sở hữu của mình.
2. Việc định đoạt tài sản chung hợp nhất được thực hiện theo thỏa thuận của các chủ sở hữu chung hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Trường hợp một chủ sở hữu chung theo phần bán phần quyền sở hữu của mình thì chủ sở hữu chung khác được quyền ưu tiên mua.
Trong thời hạn 03 tháng đối với tài sản chung là bất động sản, 01 tháng đối với tài sản chung là động sản, kể từ ngày các chủ sở hữu chung khác nhận được thông báo về việc bán và các điều kiện bán mà không có chủ sở hữu chung nào mua thì chủ sở hữu đó được quyền bán cho người khác. Việc thông báo phải được thể hiện bằng văn bản và các điều kiện bán cho chủ sở hữu chung khác phải giống như điều kiện bán cho người không phải là chủ sở hữu chung.
Trường hợp bán phần quyền sở hữu mà có sự vi phạm về quyền ưu tiên mua thì trong thời hạn 03 tháng, kể từ ngày phát hiện có sự vi phạm về quyền ưu tiên mua, chủ sở hữu chung theo phần trong số các chủ sở hữu chung có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án chuyển sang cho mình quyền và nghĩa vụ của người mua; bên có lỗi gây thiệt hại phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
4. Trường hợp một trong các chủ sở hữu chung đối với bất động sản từ bỏ phần quyền sở hữu của mình hoặc khi người này chết mà không có người thừa kế thì phần quyền sở hữu đó thuộc về Nhà nước, trừ trường hợp sở hữu chung của cộng đồng thì thuộc sở hữu chung của các chủ sở hữu chung còn lại.
5. Trường hợp một trong các chủ sở hữu chung đối với động sản từ bỏ phần quyền sở hữu của mình hoặc khi người này chết mà không có người thừa kế thì phần quyền sở hữu đó thuộc sở hữu chung của các chủ sở hữu còn lại.
6. Trường hợp tất cả các chủ sở hữu từ bỏ quyền sở hữu của mình đối với tài sản chung thì việc xác lập quyền sở hữu được áp dụng theo quy định tại

Section 1065. Original section/article: 219. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chia tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung 
1. Trường hợp sở hữu chung có thể phân chia thì mỗi chủ sở hữu chung đều có quyền yêu cầu chia tài sản chung; nếu tình trạng sở hữu chung phải được duy trì trong một thời hạn theo thỏa thuận của các chủ sở hữu chung hoặc theo quy định của luật thì mỗi chủ sở hữu chung chỉ có quyền yêu cầu chia tài sản chung khi hết thời hạn đó; khi tài sản chung không thể chia được bằng hiện vật thì chủ sở hữu chung có yêu cầu chia có quyền bán phần quyền sở hữu của mình, trừ trường hợp các chủ sở hữu chung có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp có người yêu cầu một người trong số các chủ sở hữu chung thực hiện nghĩa vụ thanh toán và chủ sở hữu chung đó không có tài sản riêng hoặc tài sản riêng không đủ để thanh toán thì người yêu cầu có quyền yêu cầu chia tài sản chung và tham gia vào việc chia tài sản chung, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
Nếu không thể chia phần quyền sở hữu bằng hiện vật hoặc việc chia này bị các chủ sở hữu chung còn lại phản đối thì người có quyền có quyền yêu cầu người có nghĩa vụ bán phần quyền sở hữu của mình để thực hiện nghĩa vụ thanh toán.

Section 1066. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt sở hữu chung Sở hữu chung chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Tài sản chung đã được chia.
2. Một trong số các chủ sở hữu chung được hưởng toàn bộ tài sản chung.
3. Tài sản chung không còn.
4. Trường hợp khác theo quy định của luật.
Mục 3. XÁC LẬP, CHẤM DỨT QUYỀN SỞ HỮU 
Tiểu mục 1. XÁC LẬP QUYỀN SỞ HỮU

Section 1067. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền sở hữu Quyền sở hữu được xác lập đối với tài sản trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Do lao động, do hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh hợp pháp, do hoạt động sáng tạo ra đối tượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ.
2. Được chuyển quyền sở hữu theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác.
3. Thu hoa lợi, lợi tức.
4. Tạo thành tài sản mới do sáp nhập, trộn lẫn, chế biến.
5. Được thừa kế.
6. Chiếm hữu trong các điều kiện do pháp luật quy định đối với tài sản vô chủ, tài sản không xác định được chủ sở hữu; tài sản bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm được tìm thấy; tài sản do người khác đánh rơi, bỏ quên; gia súc, gia cầm bị thất lạc, vật nuôi dưới nước di chuyển tự nhiên.
7. Chiếm hữu, được lợi về tài sản theo quy định tại

Section 1068. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
8. Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.

Section 1069. Original section/article: 222. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản có được từ lao động, hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh hợp pháp, hoạt động sáng tạo ra đối tượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ 
Người lao động, người tiến hành hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh hợp pháp có quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản có được từ lao động, hoạt động sản xuất, kinh doanh hợp pháp, kể từ thời điểm có được tài sản đó.
Người tiến hành hoạt động sáng tạo có quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản có được từ hoạt động sáng tạo theo quy định của Luật sở hữu trí tuệ.

Section 1070. Original section/article: 223. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu theo hợp đồng 
Người được giao tài sản thông qua hợp đồng mua bán, tặng cho, trao đổi, cho vay hoặc hợp đồng chuyển quyền sở hữu khác theo quy định của pháp luật thì có quyền sở hữu tài sản đó.

Section 1071. Original section/article: 224. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với hoa lợi, lợi tức 
Chủ sở hữu, người sử dụng tài sản có quyền sở hữu đối với hoa lợi, lợi tức theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật, kể từ thời điểm thu được hoa lợi, lợi tức đó.

Section 1072. Original section/article: 225. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu trong trường hợp sáp nhập 
1. Trường hợp tài sản của nhiều chủ sở hữu khác nhau được sáp nhập với nhau tạo thành vật không chia được và không thể xác định tài sản đem sáp nhập là vật chính hoặc vật phụ thì vật mới được tạo thành là tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung của các chủ sở hữu đó; nếu tài sản đem sáp
nhập là vật chính và vật phụ thì vật mới được tạo thành thuộc chủ sở hữu vật chính, kể từ thời điểm vật mới được tạo thành, chủ sở hữu tài sản mới phải thanh toán cho chủ sở hữu vật phụ phần giá trị của vật phụ đó, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Khi một người sáp nhập tài sản là động sản của người khác vào tài sản là động sản của mình, mặc dù đã biết hoặc phải biết tài sản đó không phải là của mình và cũng không được sự đồng ý của chủ sở hữu tài sản bị sáp nhập thì chủ sở hữu tài sản bị sáp nhập có một trong các quyền sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu người sáp nhập tài sản giao tài sản mới cho mình và thanh toán cho người sáp nhập giá trị tài sản của người đó;
b) Yêu cầu người sáp nhập tài sản thanh toán giá trị phần tài sản của mình và bồi thường thiệt hại nếu không nhận tài sản mới;
c) Quyền khác theo quy định của luật.
3. Khi một người sáp nhập tài sản là động sản của người khác vào tài sản là bất động sản của mình, mặc dù đã biết hoặc phải biết tài sản đó không phải là của mình và cũng không được sự đồng ý của chủ sở hữu tài sản bị sáp nhập thì chủ sở hữu tài sản bị sáp nhập có một trong các quyền sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu người sáp nhập tài sản thanh toán giá trị phần tài sản của mình và bồi thường thiệt hại;
b) Quyền khác theo quy định của luật.
4. Khi một người sáp nhập tài sản là động sản của mình vào một bất động sản của người khác thì chủ sở hữu bất động sản có quyền yêu cầu người sáp nhập dỡ bỏ tài sản sáp nhập trái phép và bồi thường thiệt hại hoặc giữ lại tài sản và thanh toán cho người sáp nhập giá trị tài sản sáp nhập, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1073. Original section/article: 226. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu trong trường hợp trộn lẫn 
1. Trường hợp tài sản của nhiều chủ sở hữu khác nhau được trộn lẫn với nhau tạo thành vật mới không chia được thì vật mới là tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung của các chủ sở hữu đó, kể từ thời điểm trộn lẫn.
2. Khi một người đã trộn lẫn tài sản của người khác vào tài sản của mình, mặc dù đã biết hoặc phải biết tài sản đó không phải của mình và không được sự đồng ý của chủ sở hữu tài sản bị trộn lẫn thì chủ sở hữu tài sản bị trộn lẫn có một trong các quyền sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu người đã trộn lẫn tài sản giao tài sản mới cho mình và thanh toán cho người đã trộn lẫn phần giá trị tài sản của người đó;
b) Yêu cầu người đã trộn lẫn tài sản thanh toán giá trị phần tài sản của mình và bồi thường thiệt hại nếu không nhận tài sản mới.

Section 1074. Original section/article: 227. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu trong trường hợp chế biến 
1. Chủ sở hữu của nguyên vật liệu được đem chế biến tạo thành vật mới là chủ sở hữu của vật mới được tạo thành.
2. Người dùng nguyên vật liệu thuộc sở hữu của người khác để chế biến mà ngay tình thì trở thành chủ sở hữu của tài sản mới nhưng phải thanh toán giá trị nguyên vật liệu, bồi thường thiệt hại cho chủ sở hữu nguyên vật liệu đó.
3. Trường hợp người chế biến không ngay tình thì chủ sở hữu nguyên vật liệu có quyền yêu cầu giao lại vật mới; nếu có nhiều chủ sở hữu nguyên vật liệu thì những người này là đồng chủ sở hữu theo phần đối với vật mới được tạo thành, tương ứng với giá trị nguyên vật liệu của mỗi người. Chủ sở hữu nguyên vật liệu bị chế biến không ngay tình có quyền yêu cầu người chế biến bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1075. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản vô chủ, tài sản không xác định được chủ sở hữu 1. Tài sản vô chủ là tài sản mà chủ sở hữu đã từ bỏ quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản đó.
Người đã phát hiện, người đang quản lý tài sản vô chủ là động sản thì có quyền sở hữu tài sản đó, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác; nếu tài sản là bất động sản thì thuộc về Nhà nước.
2. Người phát hiện tài sản không xác định được ai là chủ sở hữu phải thông báo hoặc giao nộp cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc công an cấp xã nơi gần nhất để thông báo công khai cho chủ sở hữu biết mà nhận lại.
Việc giao nộp phải được lập biên bản, trong đó ghi rõ họ, tên, địa chỉ của người giao nộp, người nhận, tình trạng, số lượng, khối lượng tài sản giao nộp.
Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc công an cấp xã đã nhận tài sản phải thông báo cho người phát hiện về kết quả xác định chủ sở hữu.
Sau 01 năm, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai mà không xác định được ai là chủ sở hữu tài sản là động sản thì quyền sở hữu đối với động sản đó thuộc về người phát hiện tài sản.
Sau 05 năm, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai mà không xác định được ai là chủ sở hữu tài sản là bất động sản thì bất động sản đó thuộc về Nhà nước; người phát hiện được hưởng một khoản tiền thưởng theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1076. Original section/article: 229. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm được tìm thấy 
1. Người phát hiện tài sản bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm phải thông báo hoặc trả lại ngay cho chủ sở hữu; nếu không biết ai là chủ sở hữu thì phải thông báo hoặc giao nộp cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc công an cấp xã nơi gần nhất hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Tài sản bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm được tìm thấy mà không có hoặc không xác định được ai là chủ sở hữu thì sau khi trừ chi phí tìm kiếm, bảo quản, quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản này được xác định như sau:
a) Tài sản được tìm thấy là tài sản thuộc di tích lịch sử - văn hóa theo quy định của Luật di sản văn hóa thì thuộc về Nhà nước; người tìm thấy tài sản đó được hưởng một khoản tiền thưởng theo quy định của pháp luật;
b) Tài sản được tìm thấy không phải là tài sản thuộc di tích lịch sử - văn hóa theo quy định của Luật di sản văn hóa mà có giá trị nhỏ hơn hoặc bằng mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định thì thuộc sở hữu của người tìm thấy; nếu tài sản tìm thấy có giá trị lớn hơn mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định thì người tìm thấy được hưởng giá trị bằng mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định và 50% giá trị của phần vượt quá mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định, phần giá trị còn lại thuộc về Nhà nước.

Section 1077. Original section/article: 230. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản do người khác đánh rơi, bỏ quên 
1. Người phát hiện tài sản do người khác đánh rơi, bỏ quên mà biết được địa chỉ của người đánh rơi hoặc bỏ quên thì phải thông báo hoặc trả lại tài sản cho người đó; nếu không biết địa chỉ của người đánh rơi hoặc bỏ quên thì phải thông báo hoặc giao nộp cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc công an cấp xã nơi gần nhất để thông báo công khai cho chủ sở hữu biết mà nhận lại.
Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc công an cấp xã đã nhận tài sản phải thông báo cho người đã giao nộp về kết quả xác định chủ sở hữu.
2. Sau 01 năm, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai về tài sản do người khác đánh rơi, bỏ quên mà không xác định được chủ sở hữu hoặc chủ sở hữu không đến nhận thì quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản này được xác định như sau:
a) Trường hợp tài sản bị đánh rơi, bỏ quên có giá trị nhỏ hơn hoặc bằng mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định thì người nhặt được được xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản đó theo quy định của Bộ luật này và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan; trường hợp tài sản có giá trị lớn hơn mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định thì sau khi trừ chi phí bảo quản, người nhặt được được hưởng giá trị bằng mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định và 50% giá trị của phần vượt quá mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định, phần giá trị còn lại thuộc về Nhà nước;
b) Trường hợp tài sản bị đánh rơi, bị bỏ quên là tài sản thuộc di tích lịch sử - văn hóa theo quy định của Luật di sản văn hóa thì tài sản đó thuộc về Nhà nước; người nhặt được tài sản được hưởng một khoản tiền thưởng theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1078. Original section/article: 231. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với gia súc bị thất lạc 
1. Người bắt được gia súc bị thất lạc phải nuôi giữ và báo ngay cho Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi người đó cư trú để thông báo công khai cho chủ sở hữu biết mà nhận lại. Sau 06 tháng, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai hoặc sau 01 năm đối với gia súc thả rông theo tập quán thì quyền sở hữu đối với gia súc và số gia súc được sinh ra trong thời gian nuôi giữ thuộc về người bắt được gia súc.
2. Trường hợp chủ sở hữu được nhận lại gia súc bị thất lạc thì phải thanh toán tiền công nuôi giữ và các chi phí khác cho người bắt được gia súc. Trong thời gian nuôi giữ gia súc bị thất lạc, nếu gia súc có sinh con thì người bắt được gia súc được hưởng một nửa số gia súc sinh ra hoặc 50% giá trị số gia súc sinh ra và phải bồi thường thiệt hại nếu có lỗi cố ý làm chết gia súc.

Section 1079. Original section/article: 232. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với gia cầm bị thất lạc 
1. Trường hợp gia cầm của một người bị thất lạc mà người khác bắt được thì người bắt được phải thông báo công khai để chủ sở hữu gia cầm biết mà nhận lại. Sau 01 tháng, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai mà không có người đến nhận thì quyền sở hữu đối với gia cầm và hoa lợi do gia cầm sinh ra trong thời gian nuôi giữ thuộc về người bắt được gia cầm.
2. Trường hợp chủ sở hữu được nhận lại gia cầm bị thất lạc thì phải thanh toán tiền công nuôi giữ và chi phí khác cho người bắt được gia cầm. Trong thời gian nuôi giữ gia cầm bị thất lạc, người bắt được gia cầm được hưởng hoa lợi do gia cầm sinh ra và phải bồi thường thiệt hại nếu có lỗi cố ý làm chết gia cầm.

Section 1080. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với vật nuôi dưới nước 
Khi vật nuôi dưới nước của một người di chuyển tự nhiên vào ruộng, ao, hồ của người khác thì thuộc sở hữu của người có ruộng, ao, hồ đó. Trường hợp vật nuôi dưới nước có dấu hiệu riêng biệt để có thể xác định vật nuôi không thuộc sở hữu của mình thì người có ruộng, ao, hồ đó phải thông báo công khai để chủ sở hữu biết mà nhận lại. Sau 01 tháng, kể từ ngày thông báo công khai mà không có người đến nhận thì quyền sở hữu vật nuôi dưới nước đó thuộc về người có ruộng, ao, hồ.

Section 1081. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu do được thừa kế 
Người thừa kế được xác lập quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản thừa kế theo quy định tại Phần thứ tư của Bộ luật này.

Section 1082. Original section/article: 235. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu theo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác 
Quyền sở hữu có thể được xác lập căn cứ vào bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác.

Section 1083. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập quyền sở hữu theo thời hiệu do chiếm hữu, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật 
Người chiếm hữu, người được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật nhưng ngay tình, liên tục, công khai trong thời hạn 10 năm đối với động sản, 30 năm đối với bất động sản thì trở thành chủ sở hữu tài sản đó, kể từ thời điểm bắt đầu chiếm hữu, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
Tiểu mục 2. CHẤM DỨT QUYỀN SỞ HỮU

Section 1084. Original section/article: 237. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ chấm dứt quyền sở hữu Quyền sở hữu chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Chủ sở hữu chuyển quyền sở hữu của mình cho người khác.
2. Chủ sở hữu từ bỏ quyền sở hữu của mình.
3. Tài sản đã được tiêu dùng hoặc bị tiêu hủy.
4. Tài sản bị xử lý để thực hiện nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu.
5. Tài sản bị trưng mua.
6. Tài sản bị tịch thu.
7. Tài sản đã được xác lập quyền sở hữu cho người khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
8. Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.

Section 1085. Original section/article: 238. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chủ sở hữu chuyển giao quyền sở hữu của mình cho người khác 
Khi chủ sở hữu chuyển giao quyền sở hữu của mình cho người khác thông qua hợp đồng mua bán, trao đổi, tặng cho, cho vay, hợp đồng chuyển quyền sở hữu khác theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc thông qua việc để thừa kế thì quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản của người đó chấm dứt kể từ thời điểm phát sinh quyền sở hữu của người được chuyển giao.

Section 1086. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Từ bỏ quyền sở hữu 
Chủ sở hữu có thể tự chấm dứt quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản của mình bằng cách tuyên bố công khai hoặc thực hiện hành vi chứng tỏ việc mình từ bỏ quyền chiếm hữu, sử dụng và định đoạt tài sản đó.
Đối với tài sản mà việc từ bỏ tài sản đó có thể gây hại đến trật tự, an toàn xã hội, ô nhiễm môi trường thì việc từ bỏ quyền sở hữu phải tuân theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1087. Original section/article: 240. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản đã được xác lập quyền sở hữu cho người khác 
Tài sản không xác định được chủ sở hữu; tài sản bị chôn, giấu, bị vùi lấp, chìm đắm được tìm thấy; tài sản bị đánh rơi, bị bỏ quên; gia súc, gia cầm bị thất lạc; vật nuôi dưới nước di chuyển tự nhiên đã được xác lập quyền sở hữu cho người khác theo quy định tại các điều từ

Section 1088. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì quyền sở hữu của những người có tài sản đó chấm dứt.
Khi quyền sở hữu của người chiếm hữu, người được lợi về tài sản đã được xác lập theo quy định tại

Section 1089. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc quy định khác của luật có liên quan thì chấm dứt quyền sở hữu của người có tài sản bị chiếm hữu.

Section 1090. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tài sản để thực hiện nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu 
1. Quyền sở hữu đối với một tài sản chấm dứt khi tài sản đó bị xử lý để thực hiện nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu theo quyết định của Tòa án hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác, nếu pháp luật không có quy định khác.
2. Việc xử lý tài sản để thực hiện nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu không áp dụng đối với tài sản không thuộc diện kê biên theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản bị xử lý để thực hiện nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu chấm dứt tại thời điểm phát sinh quyền sở hữu của người nhận tài sản đó.
4. Việc xử lý quyền sử dụng đất được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về đất đai.

Section 1091. Original section/article: 242. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản được tiêu dùng hoặc bị tiêu hủy Khi tài sản được tiêu dùng hoặc bị tiêu hủy thì quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản đó chấm dứt.

Section 1092. Original section/article: 243. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản bị trưng mua 
Trường hợp Nhà nước trưng mua tài sản theo quy định của luật thì quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản của chủ sở hữu đó chấm dứt kể từ thời điểm quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền có hiệu lực pháp luật.

Section 1093. Original section/article: 244. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản bị tịch thu 
Khi tài sản của chủ sở hữu do phạm tội, vi phạm hành chính mà bị tịch thu, sung quỹ nhà nước thì quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản đó chấm dứt kể từ thời điểm bản án, quyết định của Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác có hiệu lực pháp luật.
Chương XIV 
QUYỀN KHÁC ĐỐI VỚI TÀI SẢN 
Mục 1. QUYỀN ĐỐI VỚI BẤT ĐỘNG SẢN LIỀN KỀ

Section 1094. Original section/article: 245. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề 
Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề là quyền được thực hiện trên một bất động sản (gọi là bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền) nhằm phục vụ cho việc khai thác một bất động sản khác thuộc quyền sở hữu của người khác (gọi là bất động sản hưởng quyền).

Section 1095. Original section/article: 246. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề 
Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề được xác lập do địa thế tự nhiên, theo quy định của luật, theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo di chúc.

Section 1096. Original section/article: 247. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề 
Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề có hiệu lực đối với mọi cá nhân, pháp nhân và được chuyển giao khi bất động sản được chuyển giao, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.

Section 1097. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc thực hiện quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề 
Việc thực hiện quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề theo thỏa thuận của các bên. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận thì thực hiện theo các nguyên tắc sau đây:
1. Bảo đảm nhu cầu hợp lý của việc khai thác bất động sản hưởng quyền phù hợp với mục đích sử dụng của cả bất động sản hưởng quyền và bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền.
2. Không được lạm dụng quyền đối với bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền.
3. Không được thực hiện hành vi ngăn cản hoặc làm cho việc thực hiện quyền đối với bất động sản hưởng quyền trở nên khó khăn.

Section 1098. Original section/article: 249. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi việc thực hiện quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề 
Trường hợp có sự thay đổi về sử dụng, khai thác bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền dẫn đến thay đổi việc thực hiện quyền đối với bất động sản hưởng quyền thì chủ sở hữu bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền phải thông báo trước cho chủ sở hữu bất động sản hưởng quyền trong một thời hạn hợp lý. Chủ sở hữu bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền phải tạo điều kiện thuận lợi cho chủ sở hữu bất động sản hưởng quyền phù hợp với thay đổi này.

Section 1099. Original section/article: 250. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu trong việc thoát nước mưa 
Chủ sở hữu nhà, công trình xây dựng khác phải lắp đặt đường dẫn nước sao cho nước mưa từ mái nhà, công trình xây dựng của mình không được chảy xuống bất động sản của chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề.

Section 1100. Original section/article: 251. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu trong việc thoát nước thải 
Chủ sở hữu nhà, công trình xây dựng khác phải làm cống ngầm hoặc rãnh thoát nước để đưa nước thải ra nơi quy định, sao cho nước thải không chảy tràn sang bất động sản của chủ sở hữu bất động sản liền kề, ra đường công cộng hoặc nơi sinh hoạt công cộng.

Section 1101. Original section/article: 252. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền về cấp, thoát nước qua bất động sản liền kề 
Trường hợp do vị trí tự nhiên của bất động sản mà việc cấp, thoát nước buộc phải qua một bất động sản khác thì chủ sở hữu bất động sản có nước chảy qua phải dành một lối cấp, thoát nước thích hợp, không được cản trở hoặc ngăn chặn dòng nước chảy.
Người sử dụng lối cấp, thoát nước phải hạn chế đến mức thấp nhất thiệt hại cho chủ sở hữu bất động sản có nước chảy qua khi lắp đặt đường dẫn nước; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường. Trường hợp nước tự nhiên chảy từ vị trí cao xuống vị trí thấp mà gây thiệt hại cho chủ sở hữu bất
động sản có nước chảy qua thì người sử dụng lối cấp, thoát nước không phải bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1102. Original section/article: 253. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền về tưới nước, tiêu nước trong canh tác 
Người có quyền sử dụng đất canh tác khi có nhu cầu về tưới nước, tiêu nước, có quyền yêu cầu những người sử dụng đất xung quanh để cho mình một lối dẫn nước thích hợp, thuận tiện cho việc tưới, tiêu; người được yêu cầu có nghĩa vụ đáp ứng yêu cầu đó; nếu người sử dụng lối dẫn nước gây thiệt hại cho người sử dụng đất xung quanh thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1103. Original section/article: 254. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền về lối đi qua 
1. Chủ sở hữu có bất động sản bị vây bọc bởi các bất động sản của các chủ sở hữu khác mà không có hoặc không đủ lối đi ra đường công cộng, có quyền yêu cầu chủ sở hữu bất động sản vây bọc dành cho mình một lối đi hợp lý trên phần đất của họ.
Lối đi được mở trên bất động sản liền kề nào mà được coi là thuận tiện và hợp lý nhất, có tính đến đặc điểm cụ thể của địa điểm, lợi ích của bất động sản bị vây bọc và thiệt hại gây ra là ít nhất cho bất động sản có mở lối đi.
Chủ sở hữu bất động sản hưởng quyền về lối đi qua phải đền bù cho chủ sở hữu bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Vị trí, giới hạn chiều dài, chiều rộng, chiều cao của lối đi do các bên thỏa thuận, bảo đảm thuận tiện cho việc đi lại và ít gây phiền hà cho các bên; nếu có tranh chấp về lối đi thì có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác xác định.
3. Trường hợp bất động sản được chia thành nhiều phần cho các chủ sở hữu, chủ sử dụng khác nhau thì khi chia phải dành lối đi cần thiết cho người phía trong theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này mà không có đền bù.

Section 1104. Original section/article: 255. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mắc đường dây tải điện, thông tin liên lạc qua bất động sản khác 
Chủ sở hữu bất động sản có quyền mắc đường dây tải điện, thông tin liên lạc qua bất động sản của các chủ sở hữu khác một cách hợp lý, nhưng phải bảo đảm an toàn và thuận tiện cho các chủ sở hữu đó; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1105. Original section/article: 256. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề Quyền đối với bất động sản liền kề chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Bất động sản hưởng quyền và bất động sản chịu hưởng quyền thuộc quyền sở hữu của một người.
2. Việc sử dụng, khai thác bất động sản không còn làm phát sinh nhu cầu hưởng quyền.
3. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
4. Trường hợp khác theo quy định của luật.
Mục 2. QUYỀN HƯỞNG DỤNG

Section 1106. Original section/article: 257. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền hưởng dụng 
Quyền hưởng dụng là quyền của chủ thể được khai thác công dụng và hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức đối với tài sản thuộc quyền sở hữu của chủ thể khác trong một thời hạn nhất định.

Section 1107. Original section/article: 258. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền hưởng dụng 
Quyền hưởng dụng được xác lập theo quy định của luật, theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo di chúc.

Section 1108. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyền hưởng dụng 
Quyền hưởng dụng được xác lập từ thời điểm nhận chuyển giao tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật liên quan có quy định khác.
Quyền hưởng dụng đã được xác lập có hiệu lực đối với mọi cá nhân, pháp nhân, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.

Section 1109. Original section/article: 260. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn của quyền hưởng dụng 
1. Thời hạn của quyền hưởng dụng do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc do luật quy định nhưng tối đa đến hết cuộc đời của người hưởng dụng đầu tiên nếu người hưởng dụng là cá nhân và đến khi pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại nhưng tối đa 30 năm nếu người hưởng dụng đầu tiên là pháp nhân.
2. Người hưởng dụng có quyền cho thuê quyền hưởng dụng trong thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 1110. Original section/article: 261. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của người hưởng dụng 
1. Tự mình hoặc cho phép người khác khai thác, sử dụng, thu hoa lợi, lợi tức từ đối tượng của quyền hưởng dụng.
2. Yêu cầu chủ sở hữu tài sản thực hiện nghĩa vụ sửa chữa đối với tài sản theo quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1111. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này; trường hợp thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay cho chủ sở hữu tài sản thì có quyền yêu cầu chủ sở hữu tài sản hoàn trả chi phí.
3. Cho thuê quyền hưởng dụng đối với tài sản.

Section 1112. Original section/article: 262. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người hưởng dụng 1. Tiếp nhận tài sản theo hiện trạng và thực hiện đăng ký nếu luật có quy định.
2. Khai thác tài sản phù hợp với công dụng, mục đích sử dụng của tài sản.
3. Giữ gìn, bảo quản tài sản như tài sản của mình.
4. Bảo dưỡng, sửa chữa tài sản theo định kỳ để bảo đảm cho việc sử dụng bình thường; khôi phục tình trạng của tài sản và khắc phục các hậu quả xấu đối với tài sản do việc không thực hiện tốt nghĩa vụ của mình phù hợp với yêu cầu kỹ thuật hoặc theo tập quán về bảo quản tài sản.
5. Hoàn trả tài sản cho chủ sở hữu khi hết thời hạn hưởng dụng.

Section 1113. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu tài sản 1. Định đoạt tài sản nhưng không được làm thay đổi quyền hưởng dụng đã được xác lập.
2. Yêu cầu Tòa án truất quyền hưởng dụng trong trường hợp người hưởng dụng vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ của mình.
3. Không được cản trở, thực hiện hành vi khác gây khó khăn hoặc xâm phạm đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người hưởng dụng.
4. Thực hiện nghĩa vụ sửa chữa tài sản để bảo đảm không bị suy giảm đáng kể dẫn tới tài sản không thể sử dụng được hoặc mất toàn bộ công dụng, giá trị của tài sản.

Section 1114. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức 
1. Người hưởng dụng có quyền sở hữu đối với hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ tài sản là đối tượng của quyền hưởng dụng trong thời gian quyền này có hiệu lực.
2. Trường hợp quyền hưởng dụng chấm dứt mà chưa đến kỳ hạn thu hoa lợi, lợi tức thì khi đến kỳ hạn thu hoa lợi, lợi tức, người hưởng dụng được hưởng giá trị của hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được tương ứng với thời gian người đó được quyền hưởng dụng.

Section 1115. Original section/article: 265. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt quyền hưởng dụng Quyền hưởng dụng chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Thời hạn của quyền hưởng dụng đã hết.
2. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
3. Người hưởng dụng trở thành chủ sở hữu tài sản là đối tượng của quyền hưởng dụng.
4. Người hưởng dụng từ bỏ hoặc không thực hiện quyền hưởng dụng trong thời hạn do luật quy định.
5. Tài sản là đối tượng của quyền hưởng dụng không còn.
6. Theo quyết định của Tòa án.
7. Căn cứ khác theo quy định của luật.

Section 1116. Original section/article: 266. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hoàn trả tài sản khi chấm dứt quyền hưởng dụng 
Tài sản là đối tượng của quyền hưởng dụng phải được hoàn trả cho chủ sở hữu khi chấm dứt quyền hưởng dụng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
Mục 3. QUYỀN BỀ MẶT

Section 1117. Original section/article: 267. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền bề mặt 
Quyền bề mặt là quyền của một chủ thể đối với mặt đất, mặt nước, khoảng không gian trên mặt đất, mặt nước và lòng đất mà quyền sử dụng đất đó thuộc về chủ thể khác.

Section 1118. Original section/article: 268. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác lập quyền bề mặt Quyền bề mặt được xác lập theo quy định của luật, theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo di chúc.

Section 1119. Original section/article: 269. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyền bề mặt 
Quyền bề mặt có hiệu lực từ thời điểm chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất chuyển giao mặt đất, mặt nước, khoảng không gian trên mặt đất, mặt nước và lòng đất cho chủ thể có quyền bề mặt, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật liên quan có quy định khác.
Quyền bề mặt có hiệu lực đối với mọi cá nhân, pháp nhân, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.

Section 1120. Original section/article: 270. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn của quyền bề mặt 
1. Thời hạn của quyền bề mặt được xác định theo quy định của luật, theo thỏa thuận hoặc di chúc nhưng không vượt quá thời hạn của quyền sử dụng đất.
2. Trường hợp thỏa thuận hoặc di chúc không xác định thời hạn của quyền bề mặt thì mỗi bên có quyền chấm dứt quyền này bất cứ lúc nào nhưng phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho bên kia biết trước ít nhất là 06 tháng.

Section 1121. Original section/article: 271. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung của quyền bề mặt 
1. Chủ thể quyền bề mặt có quyền khai thác, sử dụng mặt đất, mặt nước, khoảng không gian trên mặt đất, mặt nước và lòng đất thuộc quyền sử dụng đất của người khác để xây dựng công trình, trồng cây, canh tác nhưng không được trái với quy định của Bộ luật này, pháp luật về đất đai, xây dựng, quy hoạch, tài nguyên, khoáng sản và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
2. Chủ thể quyền bề mặt có quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản được tạo lập theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.
3. Trường hợp quyền bề mặt được chuyển giao một phần hoặc toàn bộ thì chủ thể nhận chuyển giao được kế thừa quyền bề mặt theo điều kiện và trong phạm vi tương ứng với phần quyền bề mặt được chuyển giao.

Section 1122. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt quyền bề mặt Quyền bề mặt chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Thời hạn hưởng quyền bề mặt đã hết.
2. Chủ thể có quyền bề mặt và chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất là một.
3. Chủ thể có quyền bề mặt từ bỏ quyền của mình.
4. Quyền sử dụng đất có quyền bề mặt bị thu hồi theo quy định của Luật đất đai.
5. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên hoặc theo quy định của luật.

Section 1123. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tài sản khi quyền bề mặt chấm dứt 
1. Khi quyền bề mặt chấm dứt, chủ thể quyền bề mặt phải trả lại mặt đất, mặt nước, khoảng không gian trên mặt đất, mặt nước và lòng đất cho chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Chủ thể quyền bề mặt phải xử lý tài sản thuộc sở hữu của mình trước khi quyền bề mặt chấm dứt, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Trường hợp chủ thể quyền bề mặt không xử lý tài sản trước khi quyền bề mặt chấm dứt thì quyền sở hữu tài sản đó thuộc về chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất kể từ thời điểm quyền bề mặt chấm dứt, trừ trường hợp chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất không nhận tài sản đó.
Trường hợp chủ thể có quyền sử dụng đất không nhận tài sản mà phải xử lý tài sản thì chủ thể có quyền bề mặt phải thanh toán chi phí xử lý tài sản.
Phần thứ ba 
NGHĨA VỤ VÀ HỢP ĐỒNG 
Chương XV 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG 
Mục 1. CĂN CỨ PHÁT SINH VÀ ĐỐI TƯỢNG CỦA NGHĨA VỤ

Section 1124. Original section/article: 274. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ 
Nghĩa vụ là việc mà theo đó, một hoặc nhiều chủ thể (sau đây gọi chung là bên có nghĩa vụ) phải chuyển giao vật, chuyển giao quyền, trả tiền hoặc giấy tờ có giá, thực hiện công việc hoặc không
được thực hiện công việc nhất định vì lợi ích của một hoặc nhiều chủ thể khác (sau đây gọi chung là bên có quyền).

Section 1125. Original section/article: 275. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ phát sinh nghĩa vụ Nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ căn cứ sau đây:
1. Hợp đồng.
2. Hành vi pháp lý đơn phương.
3. Thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền.
4. Chiếm hữu, sử dụng tài sản hoặc được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật.
5. Gây thiệt hại do hành vi trái pháp luật.
6. Căn cứ khác do pháp luật quy định.

Section 1126. Original section/article: 276. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của nghĩa vụ 1. Đối tượng của nghĩa vụ là tài sản, công việc phải thực hiện hoặc không được thực hiện.
2. Đối tượng của nghĩa vụ phải được xác định.
Mục 2. THỰC HIỆN NGHĨA VỤ

Section 1127. Original section/article: 277. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Địa điểm thực hiện nghĩa vụ 1. Địa điểm thực hiện nghĩa vụ do các bên thỏa thuận.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì địa điểm thực hiện nghĩa vụ được xác định như sau:
a) Nơi có bất động sản, nếu đối tượng của nghĩa vụ là bất động sản;
b) Nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở của bên có quyền, nếu đối tượng của nghĩa vụ không phải là bất động sản.
Khi bên có quyền thay đổi nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở thì phải báo cho bên có nghĩa vụ và phải chịu chi phí tăng lên do việc thay đổi nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1128. Original section/article: 278. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ do các bên thỏa thuận, theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc theo quyết định của cơ quan có thẩm quyền.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đúng thời hạn, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ đã tự ý thực hiện nghĩa vụ trước thời hạn và bên có quyền đã chấp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì nghĩa vụ được coi là đã hoàn thành đúng thời hạn.
3. Trường hợp không xác định được thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì mỗi bên có thể thực hiện nghĩa vụ hoặc yêu cầu thực hiện nghĩa vụ vào bất cứ lúc nào nhưng phải thông báo cho bên kia biết trước một thời gian hợp lý.

Section 1129. Original section/article: 279. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ giao vật 1. Bên có nghĩa vụ giao vật phải bảo quản, giữ gìn vật cho đến khi giao.
2. Khi vật phải giao là vật đặc định thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải giao đúng vật đó và đúng tình trạng như đã cam kết; nếu là vật cùng loại thì phải giao đúng số lượng và chất lượng như đã thỏa thuận, nếu không có thỏa thuận về chất lượng thì phải giao vật đó với chất lượng trung bình; nếu là vật đồng bộ thì phải giao đồng bộ.
3. Bên có nghĩa vụ phải chịu mọi chi phí về việc giao vật, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1130. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ trả tiền 
1. Nghĩa vụ trả tiền phải được thực hiện đầy đủ, đúng thời hạn, đúng địa điểm và phương thức đã thỏa thuận.
2. Nghĩa vụ trả tiền bao gồm cả tiền lãi trên nợ gốc, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1131. Original section/article: 281. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện hoặc không được thực hiện một công việc 
1. Nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện một công việc là nghĩa vụ mà theo đó bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện đúng công việc đó.
2. Nghĩa vụ không được thực hiện một công việc là nghĩa vụ mà theo đó bên có nghĩa vụ không được thực hiện công việc đó.

Section 1132. Original section/article: 282. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ theo định kỳ 
Nghĩa vụ được thực hiện theo định kỳ theo thỏa thuận, theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc quyết định của cơ quan có thẩm quyền.
Việc chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ theo từng kỳ cũng bị coi là chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ.

Section 1133. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ thông qua người thứ ba 
Khi được bên có quyền đồng ý, bên có nghĩa vụ có thể ủy quyền cho người thứ ba thay mình thực hiện nghĩa vụ nhưng vẫn phải chịu trách nhiệm với bên có quyền, nếu người thứ ba không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.

Section 1134. Original section/article: 284. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ có điều kiện 
1. Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định về điều kiện thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì khi điều kiện phát sinh, bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện.
2. Trường hợp điều kiện không xảy ra hoặc xảy ra do có sự tác động của một bên thì áp dụng quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1135. Original section/article: 285. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ có đối tượng tùy ý lựa chọn 
1. Nghĩa vụ có đối tượng tùy ý lựa chọn là nghĩa vụ mà đối tượng là một trong nhiều tài sản hoặc công việc khác nhau và bên có nghĩa vụ có thể tùy ý lựa chọn, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định dành quyền lựa chọn cho bên có quyền.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ phải thông báo cho bên có quyền biết về việc tài sản hoặc công việc được lựa chọn để thực hiện nghĩa vụ. Trường hợp bên có quyền đã xác định thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ được lựa chọn thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải hoàn thành đúng thời hạn.
3. Trường hợp chỉ còn một tài sản hoặc một công việc thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải giao tài sản đó hoặc thực hiện công việc đó.

Section 1136. Original section/article: 286. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay thế được 
Nghĩa vụ thay thế được là nghĩa vụ mà bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện được nghĩa vụ ban đầu thì có thể thực hiện một nghĩa vụ khác đã được bên có quyền chấp nhận để thay thế nghĩa vụ đó.

Section 1137. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ riêng rẽ 
Khi nhiều người cùng thực hiện một nghĩa vụ, nhưng mỗi người có một phần nghĩa vụ nhất định và riêng rẽ thì mỗi người chỉ phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ của mình.

Section 1138. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ liên đới 
1. Nghĩa vụ liên đới là nghĩa vụ do nhiều người cùng phải thực hiện và bên có quyền có thể yêu cầu bất cứ ai trong số những người có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ.
2. Trường hợp một người đã thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ thì có quyền yêu cầu những người có nghĩa vụ liên đới khác phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ liên đới của họ đối với mình.
3. Trường hợp bên có quyền đã chỉ định một trong số những người có nghĩa vụ liên đới thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ, nhưng sau đó lại miễn cho người đó thì những người còn lại cũng được miễn thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
4. Trường hợp bên có quyền chỉ miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ cho một trong số những người có nghĩa vụ liên đới không phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ của mình thì những người còn lại vẫn phải liên đới thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ của họ.

Section 1139. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với nhiều người có quyền liên đới 
1. Nghĩa vụ đối với nhiều người có quyền liên đới là nghĩa vụ mà theo đó mỗi người trong số những người có quyền đều có thể yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ có thể thực hiện nghĩa vụ của mình đối với bất cứ ai trong số những người có quyền liên đới.
3. Trường hợp một trong số những người có quyền liên đới miễn cho bên có nghĩa vụ không phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ đối với mình thì bên có nghĩa vụ vẫn phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ còn lại đối với những người có quyền liên đới khác.

Section 1140. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ phân chia được theo phần 
1. Nghĩa vụ phân chia được theo phần là nghĩa vụ mà đối tượng của nghĩa vụ có thể chia thành nhiều phần để thực hiện.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ có thể thực hiện từng phần nghĩa vụ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1141. Original section/article: 291. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ không phân chia được theo phần 
1. Nghĩa vụ không phân chia được theo phần là nghĩa vụ mà đối tượng của nghĩa vụ phải được thực hiện cùng một lúc.
2. Trường hợp nhiều người cùng phải thực hiện một nghĩa vụ không phân chia được theo phần thì họ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ cùng một lúc.
Mục 3. BẢO ĐẢM THỰC HIỆN NGHĨA VỤ 
Tiểu mục 1. QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 1142. Original section/article: 292. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Biện pháp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ Các biện pháp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ bao gồm:
1. Cầm cố tài sản.
2. Thế chấp tài sản.
3. Đặt cọc.
4. Ký cược.
5. Ký quỹ.
6. Bảo lưu quyền sở hữu.
7. Bảo lãnh.
8. Tín chấp.
9. Cầm giữ tài sản.

Section 1143. Original section/article: 293. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm 
1. Nghĩa vụ có thể được bảo đảm một phần hoặc toàn bộ theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật; nếu không có thỏa thuận và pháp luật không quy định phạm vi bảo đảm thì nghĩa vụ coi như được bảo đảm toàn bộ, kể cả nghĩa vụ trả lãi, tiền phạt và bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm có thể là nghĩa vụ hiện tại, nghĩa vụ trong tương lai hoặc nghĩa vụ có điều kiện.
3. Trường hợp bảo đảm nghĩa vụ trong tương lai thì nghĩa vụ được hình thành trong thời hạn bảo đảm là nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1144. Original section/article: 294. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ trong tương lai 
1. Trường hợp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ trong tương lai, các bên có quyền thỏa thuận cụ thể về phạm vi nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm và thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Khi nghĩa vụ trong tương lai được hình thành, các bên không phải xác lập lại biện pháp bảo đảm đối với nghĩa vụ đó.

Section 1145. Original section/article: 295. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản bảo đảm 
1. Tài sản bảo đảm phải thuộc quyền sở hữu của bên bảo đảm, trừ trường hợp cầm giữ tài sản, bảo lưu quyền sở hữu.
2. Tài sản bảo đảm có thể được mô tả chung, nhưng phải xác định được.
3. Tài sản bảo đảm có thể là tài sản hiện có hoặc tài sản hình thành trong tương lai.
4. Giá trị của tài sản bảo đảm có thể lớn hơn, bằng hoặc nhỏ hơn giá trị nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm.

Section 1146. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Một tài sản dùng để bảo đảm thực hiện nhiều nghĩa vụ 
1. Một tài sản có thể được dùng để bảo đảm thực hiện nhiều nghĩa vụ, nếu có giá trị tại thời điểm xác lập giao dịch bảo đảm lớn hơn tổng giá trị các nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Trường hợp một tài sản được bảo đảm thực hiện nhiều nghĩa vụ thì bên bảo đảm phải thông báo cho bên nhận bảo đảm sau biết về việc tài sản bảo đảm đang được dùng để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ khác. Mỗi lần bảo đảm phải được lập thành văn bản.
3. Trường hợp phải xử lý tài sản để thực hiện một nghĩa vụ đến hạn thì các nghĩa vụ khác tuy chưa đến hạn đều được coi là đến hạn và tất cả các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm đều được tham gia xử lý tài sản. Bên nhận bảo đảm đã thông báo về việc xử lý tài sản có trách nhiệm xử lý tài sản, nếu các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm không có thỏa thuận khác.
Trường hợp các bên muốn tiếp tục thực hiện các nghĩa vụ chưa đến hạn thì có thể thỏa thuận về việc bên bảo đảm dùng tài sản khác để bảo đảm việc thực hiện các nghĩa vụ chưa đến hạn.

Section 1147. Original section/article: 297. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba 
1. Biện pháp bảo đảm phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba từ khi đăng ký biện pháp bảo đảm hoặc bên nhận bảo đảm nắm giữ hoặc chiếm giữ tài sản bảo đảm.
2. Khi biện pháp bảo đảm phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba thì bên nhận bảo đảm được quyền truy đòi tài sản bảo đảm và được quyền thanh toán theo quy định tại

Section 1148. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 1149. Original section/article: 298. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đăng ký biện pháp bảo đảm 1. Biện pháp bảo đảm được đăng ký theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của luật.
Việc đăng ký là điều kiện để giao dịch bảo đảm có hiệu lực chỉ trong trường hợp luật có quy định.
2. Trường hợp được đăng ký thì biện pháp bảo đảm phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm đăng ký.
3. Việc đăng ký biện pháp bảo đảm được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về đăng ký biện pháp bảo đảm.

Section 1150. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Các trường hợp xử lý tài sản bảo đảm 
1. Đến hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm mà bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm trước thời hạn do vi phạm nghĩa vụ theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của luật.
3. Trường hợp khác do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc luật có quy định.

Section 1151. Original section/article: 300. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về việc xử lý tài sản bảo đảm 
1. Trước khi xử lý tài sản bảo đảm, bên nhận bảo đảm phải thông báo bằng văn bản trong một thời hạn hợp lý về việc xử lý tài sản bảo đảm cho bên bảo đảm và các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm khác.
Đối với tài sản bảo đảm có nguy cơ bị hư hỏng dẫn đến bị giảm sút giá trị hoặc mất toàn bộ giá trị thì bên nhận bảo đảm có quyền xử lý ngay, đồng thời phải thông báo cho bên bảo đảm và các bên nhận bảo đảm khác về việc xử lý tài sản đó.
2. Trường hợp bên nhận bảo đảm không thông báo về việc xử lý tài sản bảo đảm theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường cho bên bảo đảm, các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm khác.

Section 1152. Original section/article: 301. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao tài sản bảo đảm để xử lý 
Người đang giữ tài sản bảo đảm có nghĩa vụ giao tài sản bảo đảm cho bên nhận bảo đảm để xử lý khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1153. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp người đang giữ tài sản không giao tài sản thì bên nhận bảo đảm có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.

Section 1154. Original section/article: 302. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền nhận lại tài sản bảo đảm 
Trước thời điểm xử lý tài sản bảo đảm mà bên bảo đảm thực hiện đầy đủ nghĩa vụ của mình đối với bên nhận bảo đảm và thanh toán chi phí phát sinh do việc chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì có quyền nhận lại tài sản đó, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1155. Original section/article: 303. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phương thức xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp 
1. Bên bảo đảm và bên nhận bảo đảm có quyền thỏa thuận một trong các phương thức xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp sau đây:
a) Bán đấu giá tài sản;
b) Bên nhận bảo đảm tự bán tài sản;
c) Bên nhận bảo đảm nhận chính tài sản để thay thế cho việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ của bên bảo đảm;
d) Phương thức khác.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận về phương thức xử lý tài sản bảo đảm theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì tài sản được bán đấu giá, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1156. Original section/article: 304. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bán tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp 
1. Việc bán đấu giá tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về bán đấu giá tài sản.
2. Việc tự bán tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp của bên nhận bảo đảm được thực hiện theo quy định về bán tài sản trong Bộ luật này và quy định sau đây:
a) Việc thanh toán số tiền có được từ việc xử lý tài sản được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1157. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Sau khi có kết quả bán tài sản thì chủ sở hữu tài sản và bên có quyền xử lý tài sản phải thực hiện các thủ tục theo quy định của pháp luật để chuyển quyền sở hữu tài sản cho bên mua tài sản.

Section 1158. Original section/article: 305. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nhận chính tài sản bảo đảm để thay thế cho việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ của bên bảo đảm 
1. Bên nhận bảo đảm được quyền nhận chính tài sản bảo đảm để thay thế cho việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ của bên bảo đảm nếu có thỏa thuận khi xác lập giao dịch bảo đảm.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì bên nhận bảo đảm chỉ được nhận chính tài sản bảo đảm để thay thế cho việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ khi bên bảo đảm đồng ý bằng văn bản.
3. Trường hợp giá trị của tài sản bảo đảm lớn hơn giá trị của nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm thì bên nhận bảo đảm phải thanh toán số tiền chênh lệch đó cho bên bảo đảm; trường hợp giá trị tài sản bảo đảm nhỏ hơn giá trị của nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm thì phần nghĩa vụ chưa được thanh toán trở thành nghĩa vụ không có bảo đảm.
4. Bên bảo đảm có nghĩa vụ thực hiện các thủ tục chuyển quyền sở hữu tài sản cho bên nhận bảo đảm theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1159. Original section/article: 306. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Định giá tài sản bảo đảm 
1. Bên bảo đảm và bên nhận bảo đảm có quyền thỏa thuận về giá tài sản bảo đảm hoặc định giá thông qua tổ chức định giá tài sản khi xử lý tài sản bảo đảm.
Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì tài sản được định giá thông qua tổ chức định giá tài sản.
2. Việc định giá tài sản bảo đảm phải bảo đảm khách quan, phù hợp với giá thị trường.
3. Tổ chức định giá phải bồi thường thiệt hại nếu có hành vi trái pháp luật mà gây thiệt hại cho bên bảo đảm, bên nhận bảo đảm trong quá trình định giá tài sản bảo đảm.

Section 1160. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thanh toán số tiền có được từ việc xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp 
1. Số tiền có được từ việc xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp sau khi thanh toán chi phí bảo quản, thu giữ và xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp được thanh toán theo thứ tự ưu tiên quy định tại

Section 1161. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp số tiền có được từ việc xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp sau khi thanh toán chi phí bảo quản, thu giữ và xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp lớn hơn giá trị nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm thì số tiền chênh lệch phải được trả cho bên bảo đảm.
3. Trường hợp số tiền có được từ việc xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp sau khi thanh toán chi phí bảo quản, thu giữ và xử lý tài sản cầm cố, thế chấp nhỏ hơn giá trị nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm thì phần nghĩa vụ chưa được thanh toán được xác định là nghĩa vụ không có bảo đảm, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận bổ sung tài sản bảo đảm. Bên nhận bảo đảm có quyền yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ chưa được thanh toán.

Section 1162. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thứ tự ưu tiên thanh toán giữa các bên cùng nhận tài sản bảo đảm 
1. Khi một tài sản được dùng để bảo đảm thực hiện nhiều nghĩa vụ thì thứ tự ưu tiên thanh toán giữa các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm được xác định như sau:
a) Trường hợp các biện pháp bảo đảm đều phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba thì thứ tự thanh toán được xác định theo thứ tự xác lập hiệu lực đối kháng;
b) Trường hợp có biện pháp bảo đảm phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba và có biện pháp bảo đảm không phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba thì nghĩa vụ có biện pháp bảo đảm có hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba được thanh toán trước;
c) Trường hợp các biện pháp bảo đảm đều không phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba thì thứ tự thanh toán được xác định theo thứ tự xác lập biện pháp bảo đảm.
2. Thứ tự ưu tiên thanh toán quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này có thể thay đổi, nếu các bên cùng nhận bảo đảm có thỏa thuận thay đổi thứ tự ưu tiên thanh toán cho nhau. Bên thế quyền ưu tiên thanh toán chỉ được ưu tiên thanh toán trong phạm vi bảo đảm của bên mà mình thế quyền.
Tiểu mục 2. CẦM CỐ TÀI SẢN

Section 1163. Original section/article: 309. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cầm cố tài sản 
Cầm cố tài sản là việc một bên (sau đây gọi là bên cầm cố) giao tài sản thuộc quyền sở hữu của mình cho bên kia (sau đây gọi là bên nhận cầm cố) để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ.

Section 1164. Original section/article: 310. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của cầm cố tài sản 
1. Hợp đồng cầm cố tài sản có hiệu lực từ thời điểm giao kết, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
2. Cầm cố tài sản có hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm bên nhận cầm cố nắm giữ tài sản cầm cố.
Trường hợp bất động sản là đối tượng của cầm cố theo quy định của luật thì việc cầm cố bất động sản có hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm đăng ký.

Section 1165. Original section/article: 311. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên cầm cố 1. Giao tài sản cầm cố cho bên nhận cầm cố theo đúng thỏa thuận.
2. Báo cho bên nhận cầm cố về quyền của người thứ ba đối với tài sản cầm cố, nếu có; trường hợp không thông báo thì bên nhận cầm cố có quyền hủy hợp đồng cầm cố tài sản và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại hoặc duy trì hợp đồng và chấp nhận quyền của người thứ ba đối với tài sản cầm cố.
3. Thanh toán cho bên nhận cầm cố chi phí hợp lý để bảo quản tài sản cầm cố, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1166. Original section/article: 312. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên cầm cố 
1. Yêu cầu bên nhận cầm cố chấm dứt việc sử dụng tài sản cầm cố trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1167. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này nếu do sử dụng mà tài sản cầm cố có nguy cơ bị mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị.
2. Yêu cầu bên nhận cầm cố trả lại tài sản cầm cố và giấy tờ liên quan, nếu có khi nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm bằng cầm cố chấm dứt.
3. Yêu cầu bên nhận cầm cố bồi thường thiệt hại xảy ra đối với tài sản cầm cố.
4. Được bán, thay thế, trao đổi, tặng cho tài sản cầm cố nếu được bên nhận cầm cố đồng ý hoặc theo quy định của luật.

Section 1168. Original section/article: 313. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên nhận cầm cố 
1. Bảo quản, giữ gìn tài sản cầm cố; nếu làm mất, thất lạc hoặc hư hỏng tài sản cầm cố thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên cầm cố.
2. Không được bán, trao đổi, tặng cho, sử dụng tài sản cầm cố để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ khác.
3. Không được cho thuê, cho mượn, khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản cầm cố, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trả lại tài sản cầm cố và giấy tờ liên quan, nếu có khi nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm bằng cầm cố chấm dứt hoặc được thay thế bằng biện pháp bảo đảm khác.

Section 1169. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên nhận cầm cố 1. Yêu cầu người đang chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật tài sản cầm cố trả lại tài sản đó.
2. Xử lý tài sản cầm cố theo phương thức đã thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Được cho thuê, cho mượn, khai thác công dụng tài sản cầm cố và hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản cầm cố, nếu có thỏa thuận.
4. Được thanh toán chi phí hợp lý bảo quản tài sản cầm cố khi trả lại tài sản cho bên cầm cố.

Section 1170. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt cầm cố tài sản Cầm cố tài sản chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm bằng cầm cố chấm dứt.
2. Việc cầm cố tài sản được hủy bỏ hoặc được thay thế bằng biện pháp bảo đảm khác.
3. Tài sản cầm cố đã được xử lý.
4. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.

Section 1171. Original section/article: 316. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả lại tài sản cầm cố 
Khi việc cầm cố tài sản chấm dứt theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2

Section 1172. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc theo thỏa thuận của các bên thì tài sản cầm cố, giấy tờ liên quan đến tài sản cầm cố được trả lại cho bên cầm cố. Hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ tài sản cầm cố cũng được trả lại cho bên cầm cố, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Tiểu mục 3. THẾ CHẤP TÀI SẢN

Section 1173. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thế chấp tài sản 
1. Thế chấp tài sản là việc một bên (sau đây gọi là bên thế chấp) dùng tài sản thuộc sở hữu của mình để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ và không giao tài sản cho bên kia (sau đây gọi là bên nhận thế chấp).
2. Tài sản thế chấp do bên thế chấp giữ. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận giao cho người thứ ba giữ tài sản thế chấp.

Section 1174. Original section/article: 318. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản thế chấp 
1. Trường hợp thế chấp toàn bộ bất động sản, động sản có vật phụ thì vật phụ của bất động sản, động sản đó cũng thuộc tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp thế chấp một phần bất động sản, động sản có vật phụ thì vật phụ gắn với tài sản đó thuộc tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Trường hợp thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất mà tài sản gắn liền với đất thuộc quyền sở hữu của bên thế chấp thì tài sản gắn liền với đất cũng thuộc tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp tài sản thế chấp được bảo hiểm thì bên nhận thế chấp phải thông báo cho tổ chức bảo hiểm biết về việc tài sản bảo hiểm đang được dùng để thế chấp. Tổ chức bảo hiểm chi trả tiền bảo hiểm trực tiếp cho bên nhận thế chấp khi xảy ra sự kiện bảo hiểm.
Trường hợp bên nhận thế chấp không thông báo cho tổ chức bảo hiểm biết về việc tài sản bảo hiểm đang được dùng để thế chấp thì tổ chức bảo hiểm chi trả tiền bảo hiểm theo hợp đồng bảo hiểm và bên thế chấp có nghĩa vụ thanh toán cho bên nhận thế chấp.

Section 1175. Original section/article: 319. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của thế chấp tài sản 
1. Hợp đồng thế chấp tài sản có hiệu lực từ thời điểm giao kết, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
2. Thế chấp tài sản phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm đăng ký.

Section 1176. Original section/article: 320. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên thế chấp 
1. Giao giấy tờ liên quan đến tài sản thế chấp trong trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
2. Bảo quản, giữ gìn tài sản thế chấp.
3. Áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết để khắc phục, kể cả phải ngừng việc khai thác công dụng tài sản thế chấp nếu do việc khai thác đó mà tài sản thế chấp có nguy cơ mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị.
4. Khi tài sản thế chấp bị hư hỏng thì trong một thời gian hợp lý bên thế chấp phải sửa chữa hoặc thay thế bằng tài sản khác có giá trị tương đương, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
5. Cung cấp thông tin về thực trạng tài sản thế chấp cho bên nhận thế chấp.
6. Giao tài sản thế chấp cho bên nhận thế chấp để xử lý khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp xử lý tài sản bảo đảm quy định tại

Section 1177. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
7. Thông báo cho bên nhận thế chấp về các quyền của người thứ ba đối với tài sản thế chấp, nếu có; trường hợp không thông báo thì bên nhận thế chấp có quyền hủy hợp đồng thế chấp tài sản và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại hoặc duy trì hợp đồng và chấp nhận quyền của người thứ ba đối với tài sản thế chấp.
8. Không được bán, thay thế, trao đổi, tặng cho tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 1178. Original section/article: 321. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên thế chấp 
1. Khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp hoa lợi, lợi tức cũng là tài sản thế chấp theo thỏa thuận.
2. Đầu tư để làm tăng giá trị của tài sản thế chấp.
3. Nhận lại tài sản thế chấp do người thứ ba giữ và giấy tờ liên quan đến tài sản thế chấp do bên nhận thế chấp giữ khi nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm bằng thế chấp chấm dứt hoặc được thay thế bằng biện pháp bảo đảm khác.
4. Được bán, thay thế, trao đổi tài sản thế chấp, nếu tài sản đó là hàng hóa luân chuyển trong quá trình sản xuất, kinh doanh. Trong trường hợp này, quyền yêu cầu bên mua thanh toán tiền, số tiền thu được, tài sản hình thành từ số tiền thu được, tài sản được thay thế hoặc được trao đổi trở thành tài sản thế chấp.
Trường hợp tài sản thế chấp là kho hàng thì bên thế chấp được quyền thay thế hàng hóa trong kho, nhưng phải bảo đảm giá trị của hàng hóa trong kho đúng như thỏa thuận.
5. Được bán, trao đổi, tặng cho tài sản thế chấp không phải là hàng hóa luân chuyển trong quá trình sản xuất, kinh doanh, nếu được bên nhận thế chấp đồng ý hoặc theo quy định của luật.
6. Được cho thuê, cho mượn tài sản thế chấp nhưng phải thông báo cho bên thuê, bên mượn biết về việc tài sản cho thuê, cho mượn đang được dùng để thế chấp và phải thông báo cho bên nhận thế chấp biết.

Section 1179. Original section/article: 322. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên nhận thế chấp 
1. Trả các giấy tờ cho bên thế chấp sau khi chấm dứt thế chấp đối với trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận bên nhận thế chấp giữ giấy tờ liên quan đến tài sản thế chấp.
2. Thực hiện thủ tục xử lý tài sản thế chấp theo đúng quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1180. Original section/article: 323. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên nhận thế chấp 
1. Xem xét, kiểm tra trực tiếp tài sản thế chấp, nhưng không được cản trở hoặc gây khó khăn cho việc hình thành, sử dụng, khai thác tài sản thế chấp.
2. Yêu cầu bên thế chấp phải cung cấp thông tin về thực trạng tài sản thế chấp.
3. Yêu cầu bên thế chấp áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết để bảo toàn tài sản, giá trị tài sản trong trường hợp có nguy cơ làm mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị của tài sản do việc khai thác, sử dụng.
4. Thực hiện việc đăng ký thế chấp theo quy định của pháp luật.
5. Yêu cầu bên thế chấp hoặc người thứ ba giữ tài sản thế chấp giao tài sản đó cho mình để xử lý khi bên thế chấp không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.
6. Giữ giấy tờ liên quan đến tài sản thế chấp trong trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
7. Xử lý tài sản thế chấp khi thuộc trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1181. Original section/article: 324. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của người thứ ba giữ tài sản thế chấp 1. Người thứ ba giữ tài sản thế chấp có các quyền sau đây:
a) Được khai thác công dụng tài sản thế chấp, nếu có thỏa thuận;
b) Được trả thù lao và chi phí bảo quản, giữ gìn tài sản thế chấp, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Người thứ ba giữ tài sản thế chấp có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Bảo quản, giữ gìn tài sản thế chấp; nếu làm mất tài sản thế chấp, làm mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị của tài sản thế chấp thì phải bồi thường;
b) Không được tiếp tục khai thác công dụng tài sản thế chấp nếu việc tiếp tục khai thác có nguy cơ làm mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị của tài sản thế chấp;
c) Giao lại tài sản thế chấp cho bên nhận thế chấp hoặc bên thế chấp theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1182. Original section/article: 325. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất mà không thế chấp tài sản gắn liền với đất 
1. Trường hợp thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất mà không thế chấp tài sản gắn liền với đất và người sử dụng đất đồng thời là chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất thì tài sản được xử lý bao gồm cả tài sản gắn liền với đất, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất mà người sử dụng đất không đồng thời là chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất thì khi xử lý quyền sử dụng đất, chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất được tiếp tục sử dụng đất trong phạm vi quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình; quyền và nghĩa vụ của bên thế
chấp trong mối quan hệ với chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất được chuyển giao cho người nhận chuyển quyền sử dụng đất, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1183. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thế chấp tài sản gắn liền với đất mà không thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất 
1. Trường hợp chỉ thế chấp tài sản gắn liền với đất mà không thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất và chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất đồng thời là người sử dụng đất thì tài sản được xử lý bao gồm cả quyền sử dụng đất, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp chỉ thế chấp tài sản gắn liền với đất mà không thế chấp quyền sử dụng đất và chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất không đồng thời là người sử dụng đất thì khi xử lý tài sản gắn liền với đất, người nhận chuyển quyền sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất được tiếp tục sử dụng đất trong phạm vi quyền, nghĩa vụ của chủ sở hữu tài sản gắn liền với đất được chuyển giao, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1184. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt thế chấp tài sản Thế chấp tài sản chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ được bảo đảm bằng thế chấp chấm dứt.
2. Việc thế chấp tài sản được hủy bỏ hoặc được thay thế bằng biện pháp bảo đảm khác.
3. Tài sản thế chấp đã được xử lý.
4. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
Tiểu mục 4. ĐẶT CỌC, KÝ CƯỢC, KÝ QUỸ

Section 1185. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đặt cọc 
1. Đặt cọc là việc một bên (sau đây gọi là bên đặt cọc) giao cho bên kia (sau đây gọi là bên nhận đặt cọc) một khoản tiền hoặc kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc vật có giá trị khác (sau đây gọi chung là tài sản đặt cọc) trong một thời hạn để bảo đảm giao kết hoặc thực hiện hợp đồng.
2. Trường hợp hợp đồng được giao kết, thực hiện thì tài sản đặt cọc được trả lại cho bên đặt cọc hoặc được trừ để thực hiện nghĩa vụ trả tiền; nếu bên đặt cọc từ chối việc giao kết, thực hiện hợp đồng thì tài sản đặt cọc thuộc về bên nhận đặt cọc; nếu bên nhận đặt cọc từ chối việc giao kết, thực hiện hợp đồng thì phải trả cho bên đặt cọc tài sản đặt cọc và một khoản tiền tương đương giá trị tài sản đặt cọc, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1186. Original section/article: 329. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ký cược 
1. Ký cược là việc bên thuê tài sản là động sản giao cho bên cho thuê một khoản tiền hoặc kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc vật có giá trị khác (sau đây gọi chung là tài sản ký cược) trong một thời hạn để bảo đảm việc trả lại tài sản thuê.
2. Trường hợp tài sản thuê được trả lại thì bên thuê được nhận lại tài sản ký cược sau khi trả tiền thuê; nếu bên thuê không trả lại tài sản thuê thì bên cho thuê có quyền đòi lại tài sản thuê; nếu tài sản thuê không còn để trả lại thì tài sản ký cược thuộc về bên cho thuê.

Section 1187. Original section/article: 330. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ký quỹ 
1. Ký quỹ là việc bên có nghĩa vụ gửi một khoản tiền hoặc kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc giấy tờ có giá vào tài khoản phong tỏa tại một tổ chức tín dụng để bảo đảm việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
2. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ thì bên có quyền được tổ chức tín dụng nơi ký quỹ thanh toán, bồi thường thiệt hại do bên có nghĩa vụ gây ra, sau khi trừ chi phí dịch vụ.
3. Thủ tục gửi và thanh toán thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
Tiểu mục 5. BẢO LƯU QUYỀN SỞ HỮU

Section 1188. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo lưu quyền sở hữu 
1. Trong hợp đồng mua bán, quyền sở hữu tài sản có thể được bên bán bảo lưu cho đến khi nghĩa vụ thanh toán được thực hiện đầy đủ.
2. Bảo lưu quyền sở hữu phải được lập thành văn bản riêng hoặc được ghi trong hợp đồng mua bán.
3. Bảo lưu quyền sở hữu phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm đăng ký.

Section 1189. Original section/article: 332. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền đòi lại tài sản 
Trường hợp bên mua không hoàn thành nghĩa vụ thanh toán cho bên bán theo thỏa thuận thì bên bán có quyền đòi lại tài sản. Bên bán hoàn trả cho bên mua số tiền bên mua đã thanh toán sau khi trừ giá trị hao mòn tài sản do sử dụng. Trường hợp bên mua làm mất, hư hỏng tài sản thì bên bán có quyền yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1190. Original section/article: 333. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền và nghĩa vụ của bên mua tài sản 
1. Sử dụng tài sản và hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức từ tài sản trong thời hạn bảo lưu quyền sở hữu có hiệu lực.
2. Chịu rủi ro về tài sản trong thời hạn bảo lưu quyền sở hữu, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1191. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt bảo lưu quyền sở hữu Bảo lưu quyền sở hữu chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ thanh toán cho bên bán được thực hiện xong.
2. Bên bán nhận lại tài sản bảo lưu quyền sở hữu.
3. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
Tiểu mục 6. BẢO LÃNH

Section 1192. Original section/article: 335. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo lãnh 
1. Bảo lãnh là việc người thứ ba (sau đây gọi là bên bảo lãnh) cam kết với bên có quyền (sau đây gọi là bên nhận bảo lãnh) sẽ thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay cho bên có nghĩa vụ (sau đây gọi là bên được bảo lãnh), nếu khi đến thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ mà bên được bảo lãnh không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.
2. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về việc bên bảo lãnh chỉ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay cho bên được bảo lãnh trong trường hợp bên được bảo lãnh không có khả năng thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh.

Section 1193. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi bảo lãnh 1. Bên bảo lãnh có thể cam kết bảo lãnh một phần hoặc toàn bộ nghĩa vụ cho bên được bảo lãnh.
2. Nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh bao gồm cả tiền lãi trên nợ gốc, tiền phạt, tiền bồi thường thiệt hại, lãi trên số tiền chậm trả, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận sử dụng biện pháp bảo đảm bằng tài sản để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh.
4. Trường hợp nghĩa vụ được bảo lãnh là nghĩa vụ phát sinh trong tương lai thì phạm vi bảo lãnh không bao gồm nghĩa vụ phát sinh sau khi người bảo lãnh chết hoặc pháp nhân bảo lãnh chấm dứt tồn tại.

Section 1194. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thù lao Bên bảo lãnh được hưởng thù lao nếu bên bảo lãnh và bên được bảo lãnh có thỏa thuận.

Section 1195. Original section/article: 338. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nhiều người cùng bảo lãnh 
Khi nhiều người cùng bảo lãnh một nghĩa vụ thì phải liên đới thực hiện việc bảo lãnh, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định bảo lãnh theo các phần độc lập; bên có quyền có thể yêu cầu bất cứ ai trong số những người bảo lãnh liên đới phải thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ.
Khi một người trong số những người bảo lãnh liên đới đã thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ thay cho bên được bảo lãnh thì có quyền yêu cầu những người bảo lãnh còn lại phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ của họ đối với mình.

Section 1196. Original section/article: 339. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quan hệ giữa bên bảo lãnh và bên nhận bảo lãnh 
1. Trường hợp bên được bảo lãnh không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ của mình thì bên nhận bảo lãnh có quyền yêu cầu bên bảo lãnh phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận bên bảo lãnh chỉ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay cho bên được bảo lãnh trong trường hợp bên được bảo lãnh không có khả năng thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
2. Bên nhận bảo lãnh không được yêu cầu bên bảo lãnh thực hiện nghĩa vụ thay cho bên được bảo lãnh khi nghĩa vụ chưa đến hạn.
3. Bên bảo lãnh không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh trong trường hợp bên nhận bảo lãnh có thể bù trừ nghĩa vụ với bên được bảo lãnh.

Section 1197. Original section/article: 340. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu của bên bảo lãnh 
Bên bảo lãnh có quyền yêu cầu bên được bảo lãnh thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình trong phạm vi nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh đã thực hiện, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1198. Original section/article: 341. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh 
1. Trường hợp bên bảo lãnh phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh mà bên nhận bảo lãnh miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ cho bên bảo lãnh thì bên được bảo lãnh không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với bên nhận bảo lãnh, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Trường hợp chỉ một trong số nhiều người cùng bảo lãnh liên đới được miễn việc thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh của mình thì những người khác vẫn phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh của họ.
3. Trường hợp một trong số những người nhận bảo lãnh liên đới miễn cho bên bảo lãnh không phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ đối với mình thì bên bảo lãnh vẫn phải thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ còn lại đối với những người nhận bảo lãnh liên đới còn lại.

Section 1199. Original section/article: 342. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm dân sự của bên bảo lãnh 
1. Trường hợp bên được bảo lãnh không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ thì bên bảo lãnh phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đó.
2. Trường hợp bên bảo lãnh không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh thì bên nhận bảo lãnh có quyền yêu cầu bên bảo lãnh thanh toán giá trị nghĩa vụ vi phạm và bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1200. Original section/article: 343. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt bảo lãnh Bảo lãnh chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ được bảo lãnh chấm dứt.
2. Việc bảo lãnh được hủy bỏ hoặc được thay thế bằng biện pháp bảo đảm khác.
3. Bên bảo lãnh đã thực hiện nghĩa vụ bảo lãnh.
4. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
Tiểu mục 7. TÍN CHẤP

Section 1201. Original section/article: 344. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm bằng tín chấp của tổ chức chính trị - xã hội 
Tổ chức chính trị - xã hội ở cơ sở có thể bảo đảm bằng tín chấp cho cá nhân, hộ gia đình nghèo vay một khoản tiền tại tổ chức tín dụng để sản xuất, kinh doanh, tiêu dùng theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1202. Original section/article: 345. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức, nội dung tín chấp 
Việc cho vay có bảo đảm bằng tín chấp phải được lập thành văn bản có xác nhận của tổ chức chính trị - xã hội bảo đảm bằng tín chấp về điều kiện, hoàn cảnh của bên vay vốn.
Thỏa thuận bảo đảm bằng tín chấp phải cụ thể về số tiền, mục đích, thời hạn vay, lãi suất, quyền, nghĩa vụ và trách nhiệm của người vay, tổ chức tín dụng cho vay và tổ chức chính trị - xã hội bảo đảm bằng tín chấp.
Tiểu mục 8. CẦM GIỮ TÀI SẢN

Section 1203. Original section/article: 346. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cầm giữ tài sản 
Cầm giữ tài sản là việc bên có quyền (sau đây gọi là bên cầm giữ) đang nắm giữ hợp pháp tài sản là đối tượng của hợp đồng song vụ được chiếm giữ tài sản trong trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.

Section 1204. Original section/article: 347. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập cầm giữ tài sản 
1. Cầm giữ tài sản phát sinh từ thời điểm đến hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ mà bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ.
2. Cầm giữ tài sản phát sinh hiệu lực đối kháng với người thứ ba kể từ thời điểm bên cầm giữ chiếm giữ tài sản.

Section 1205. Original section/article: 348. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên cầm giữ 1. Yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện đầy đủ nghĩa vụ phát sinh từ hợp đồng song vụ.
2. Yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ phải thanh toán chi phí cần thiết cho việc bảo quản, giữ gìn tài sản cầm giữ.
3. Được khai thác tài sản cầm giữ để thu hoa lợi, lợi tức nếu được bên có nghĩa vụ đồng ý.
Giá trị của việc khai thác tài sản cầm giữ được bù trừ vào giá trị nghĩa vụ của bên có nghĩa vụ.

Section 1206. Original section/article: 349. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên cầm giữ 1. Giữ gìn, bảo quản tài sản cầm giữ.
2. Không được thay đổi tình trạng của tài sản cầm giữ.
3. Không được chuyển giao, sử dụng tài sản cầm giữ nếu không có sự đồng ý của bên có nghĩa vụ.
4. Giao lại tài sản cầm giữ khi nghĩa vụ đã được thực hiện.
5. Bồi thường thiệt hại nếu làm mất hoặc hư hỏng tài sản cầm giữ.

Section 1207. Original section/article: 350. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt cầm giữ Cầm giữ tài sản chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Bên cầm giữ không còn chiếm giữ tài sản trên thực tế.
2. Các bên thỏa thuận sử dụng biện pháp bảo đảm khác để thay thế cho cầm giữ.
3. Nghĩa vụ đã được thực hiện xong.
4. Tài sản cầm giữ không còn.
5. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên.
Mục 4. TRÁCH NHIỆM DÂN SỰ

Section 1208. Original section/article: 351. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm dân sự do vi phạm nghĩa vụ 1. Bên có nghĩa vụ mà vi phạm nghĩa vụ thì phải chịu trách nhiệm dân sự đối với bên có quyền.
Vi phạm nghĩa vụ là việc bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện nghĩa vụ đúng thời hạn, thực hiện không đầy đủ nghĩa vụ hoặc thực hiện không đúng nội dung của nghĩa vụ.
2. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ do sự kiện bất khả kháng thì không phải chịu trách nhiệm dân sự, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Bên có nghĩa vụ không phải chịu trách nhiệm dân sự nếu chứng minh được nghĩa vụ không thực hiện được là hoàn toàn do lỗi của bên có quyền.

Section 1209. Original section/article: 352. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm tiếp tục thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
Khi bên có nghĩa vụ thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ của mình thì bên có quyền được yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ tiếp tục thực hiện nghĩa vụ.

Section 1210. Original section/article: 353. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ là nghĩa vụ vẫn chưa được thực hiện hoặc chỉ được thực hiện một phần khi thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ đã hết.
2. Bên chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ phải thông báo ngay cho bên có quyền về việc không thực hiện nghĩa vụ đúng thời hạn.

Section 1211. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hoãn thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Khi không thể thực hiện được nghĩa vụ đúng thời hạn thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải thông báo ngay cho bên có quyền biết và đề nghị được hoãn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
Trường hợp không thông báo cho bên có quyền thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải bồi thường thiệt hại phát sinh, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc do nguyên nhân khách quan không thể thông báo.
2. Bên có nghĩa vụ được hoãn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ, nếu được bên có quyền đồng ý. Việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ khi được hoãn vẫn được coi là thực hiện đúng thời hạn.

Section 1212. Original section/article: 355. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chậm tiếp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Chậm tiếp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ là khi đến thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ mà bên có nghĩa vụ đã thực hiện nhưng bên có quyền không tiếp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ đó.
2. Trường hợp chậm tiếp nhận đối tượng của nghĩa vụ là tài sản thì bên có nghĩa vụ có thể gửi tài sản tại nơi nhận gửi giữ tài sản hoặc áp dụng biện pháp cần thiết khác để bảo quản tài sản và có quyền yêu cầu thanh toán chi phí hợp lý. Trường hợp tài sản được gửi giữ thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải thông báo ngay cho bên có quyền.
3. Đối với tài sản có nguy cơ bị hư hỏng thì bên có nghĩa vụ có quyền bán tài sản đó và phải thông báo ngay cho bên có quyền, trả cho bên có quyền khoản tiền thu được từ việc bán tài sản sau khi trừ chi phí hợp lý để bảo quản và bán tài sản đó.

Section 1213. Original section/article: 356. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do không thực hiện nghĩa vụ giao vật 
1. Trường hợp nghĩa vụ giao vật đặc định không được thực hiện thì bên bị vi phạm có quyền yêu cầu bên vi phạm phải giao đúng vật đó; nếu vật không còn hoặc bị hư hỏng thì phải thanh toán giá trị của vật.
2. Trường hợp nghĩa vụ giao vật cùng loại không được thực hiện thì bên bị vi phạm có quyền yêu cầu bên vi phạm phải giao vật cùng loại khác; nếu không có vật cùng loại khác thay thế thì phải thanh toán giá trị của vật.
3. Trường hợp việc vi phạm nghĩa vụ quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này mà gây thiệt hại cho bên bị vi phạm thì bên vi phạm phải bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1214. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ trả tiền 
1. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ chậm trả tiền thì bên đó phải trả lãi đối với số tiền chậm trả tương ứng với thời gian chậm trả.
2. Lãi suất phát sinh do chậm trả tiền được xác định theo thỏa thuận của các bên nhưng không được vượt quá mức lãi suất được quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1215. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1216. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do không thực hiện hoặc không được thực hiện một công việc 
1. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện một công việc mà mình phải thực hiện thì bên có quyền có thể yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ tiếp tục thực hiện hoặc tự mình thực hiện hoặc giao người khác thực hiện công việc đó và yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ thanh toán chi phí hợp lý, bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Khi bên có nghĩa vụ không được thực hiện một công việc mà lại thực hiện công việc đó thì bên có quyền được quyền yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ phải chấm dứt việc thực hiện, khôi phục tình trạng ban đầu và bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1217. Original section/article: 359. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do chậm tiếp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
Bên có quyền chậm tiếp nhận việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ làm phát sinh thiệt hại cho bên có nghĩa vụ thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên đó và phải chịu mọi rủi ro, chi phí phát sinh kể từ thời điểm chậm tiếp nhận, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1218. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại do vi phạm nghĩa vụ 
Trường hợp có thiệt hại do vi phạm nghĩa vụ gây ra thì bên có nghĩa vụ phải bồi thường toàn bộ thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.

Section 1219. Original section/article: 361. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại do vi phạm nghĩa vụ 1. Thiệt hại do vi phạm nghĩa vụ bao gồm thiệt hại về vật chất và thiệt hại về tinh thần.
2. Thiệt hại về vật chất là tổn thất vật chất thực tế xác định được, bao gồm tổn thất về tài sản, chi phí hợp lý để ngăn chặn, hạn chế, khắc phục thiệt hại, thu nhập thực tế bị mất hoặc bị giảm sút.
3. Thiệt hại về tinh thần là tổn thất về tinh thần do bị xâm phạm đến tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín và các lợi ích nhân thân khác của một chủ thể.

Section 1220. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ ngăn chặn, hạn chế thiệt hại 
Bên có quyền phải áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết, hợp lý để thiệt hại không xảy ra hoặc hạn chế thiệt hại cho mình.

Section 1221. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại trong trường hợp bên bị vi phạm có lỗi 
Trường hợp vi phạm nghĩa vụ và có thiệt hại là do một phần lỗi của bên bị vi phạm thì bên vi phạm chỉ phải bồi thường thiệt hại tương ứng với mức độ lỗi của mình.

Section 1222. Original section/article: 364. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lỗi trong trách nhiệm dân sự Lỗi trong trách nhiệm dân sự bao gồm lỗi cố ý, lỗi vô ý.
Lỗi cố ý là trường hợp một người nhận thức rõ hành vi của mình sẽ gây thiệt hại cho người khác mà vẫn thực hiện và mong muốn hoặc tuy không mong muốn nhưng để mặc cho thiệt hại xảy ra.
Lỗi vô ý là trường hợp một người không thấy trước hành vi của mình có khả năng gây thiệt hại, mặc dù phải biết hoặc có thể biết trước thiệt hại sẽ xảy ra hoặc thấy trước hành vi của mình có khả năng gây thiệt hại, nhưng cho rằng thiệt hại sẽ không xảy ra hoặc có thể ngăn chặn được.
Mục 5. CHUYỂN GIAO QUYỀN YÊU CẦU VÀ CHUYỂN GIAO NGHĨA VỤ

Section 1223. Original section/article: 365. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu 
1. Bên có quyền yêu cầu thực hiện nghĩa vụ có thể chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu đó cho người thế quyền theo thỏa thuận, trừ trường hợp sau đây:
a) Quyền yêu cầu cấp dưỡng, yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại do xâm phạm đến tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín;
b) Bên có quyền và bên có nghĩa vụ có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định về việc không được chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu.
2. Khi bên có quyền yêu cầu chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu cho người thế quyền thì người thế quyền trở thành bên có quyền yêu cầu. Việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu không cần có sự đồng ý của bên có nghĩa vụ.
Người chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho bên có nghĩa vụ biết về việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Trường hợp bên chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu không thông báo về việc chuyển giao quyền mà phát sinh chi phí cho bên có nghĩa vụ thì bên chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu phải thanh toán chi phí này.

Section 1224. Original section/article: 366. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ cung cấp thông tin và chuyển giao giấy tờ 
1. Người chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu phải cung cấp thông tin cần thiết, chuyển giao giấy tờ có liên quan cho người thế quyền.
2. Người chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu vi phạm nghĩa vụ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1225. Original section/article: 367. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Không chịu trách nhiệm sau khi chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu 
Người chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu không phải chịu trách nhiệm về khả năng thực hiện nghĩa vụ của bên có nghĩa vụ sau khi chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1226. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu có biện pháp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
Trường hợp quyền yêu cầu thực hiện nghĩa vụ có biện pháp bảo đảm thì việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu bao gồm cả biện pháp bảo đảm đó.

Section 1227. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền từ chối của bên có nghĩa vụ 
1. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không được thông báo về việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu và người thế quyền không chứng minh về tính xác thực của việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu thì bên có nghĩa vụ có quyền từ chối việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với người thế quyền.
2. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ do không được thông báo về việc chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu mà đã thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với người chuyển giao quyền yêu cầu thì người thế quyền không được yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình.

Section 1228. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển giao nghĩa vụ 
1. Bên có nghĩa vụ có thể chuyển giao nghĩa vụ cho người thế nghĩa vụ nếu được bên có quyền đồng ý, trừ trường hợp nghĩa vụ gắn liền với nhân thân của bên có nghĩa vụ hoặc pháp luật có quy định không được chuyển giao nghĩa vụ.
2. Khi được chuyển giao nghĩa vụ thì người thế nghĩa vụ trở thành bên có nghĩa vụ.

Section 1229. Original section/article: 371. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuyển giao nghĩa vụ có biện pháp bảo đảm 
Trường hợp nghĩa vụ có biện pháp bảo đảm được chuyển giao thì biện pháp bảo đảm đó chấm dứt, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Mục 6. CHẤM DỨT NGHĨA VỤ

Section 1230. Original section/article: 372. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ chấm dứt nghĩa vụ Nghĩa vụ chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ được hoàn thành;
2. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên;
3. Bên có quyền miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ;
4. Nghĩa vụ được thay thế bằng nghĩa vụ khác;
5. Nghĩa vụ được bù trừ;
6. Bên có quyền và bên có nghĩa vụ hòa nhập làm một;
7. Thời hiệu miễn trừ nghĩa vụ đã hết;
8. Bên có nghĩa vụ là cá nhân chết hoặc là pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại mà nghĩa vụ phải do chính cá nhân, pháp nhân đó thực hiện;
9. Bên có quyền là cá nhân chết mà quyền yêu cầu không thuộc di sản thừa kế hoặc là pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại mà quyền yêu cầu không được chuyển giao cho pháp nhân khác;
10. Vật đặc định là đối tượng của nghĩa vụ không còn và được thay thế bằng nghĩa vụ khác;
11. Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.

Section 1231. Original section/article: 373. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hoàn thành nghĩa vụ 
Nghĩa vụ được hoàn thành khi bên có nghĩa vụ đã thực hiện toàn bộ nghĩa vụ hoặc thực hiện một phần nghĩa vụ nhưng phần còn lại được bên có quyền cho miễn thực hiện.

Section 1232. Original section/article: 374. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hoàn thành nghĩa vụ trong trường hợp bên có quyền chậm tiếp nhận đối tượng của nghĩa vụ 
Khi bên có quyền chậm tiếp nhận đối tượng của nghĩa vụ là tài sản thì nghĩa vụ hoàn thành tại thời điểm tài sản đã được gửi giữ tại nơi nhận gửi giữ theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1233. Original section/article: 375. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ theo thỏa thuận 
Các bên có thể thỏa thuận chấm dứt nghĩa vụ bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng không được gây thiệt hại đến lợi ích quốc gia, dân tộc, lợi ích công cộng, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác.

Section 1234. Original section/article: 376. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ do được miễn thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Nghĩa vụ chấm dứt khi bên có quyền miễn việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ cho bên có nghĩa vụ, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Khi nghĩa vụ có biện pháp bảo đảm được miễn thì biện pháp bảo đảm cũng chấm dứt.

Section 1235. Original section/article: 377. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ do được thay thế bằng nghĩa vụ khác 
1. Trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận thay thế nghĩa vụ ban đầu bằng nghĩa vụ khác thì nghĩa vụ ban đầu chấm dứt.
2. Nghĩa vụ cũng chấm dứt, nếu bên có quyền đã tiếp nhận tài sản hoặc công việc khác thay thế cho tài sản hoặc công việc đã thỏa thuận trước.
3. Trường hợp nghĩa vụ là nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng, bồi thường thiệt hại do xâm phạm tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín và các nghĩa vụ khác gắn liền với nhân thân không thể chuyển cho người khác được thì không được thay thế bằng nghĩa vụ khác.

Section 1236. Original section/article: 378. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ do bù trừ nghĩa vụ 
1. Trường hợp các bên cùng có nghĩa vụ về tài sản cùng loại đối với nhau thì khi cùng đến hạn họ không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với nhau và nghĩa vụ được xem là chấm dứt, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
2. Trường hợp giá trị của tài sản hoặc công việc không tương đương với nhau thì các bên thanh toán cho nhau phần giá trị chênh lệch.
3. Những vật được định giá thành tiền cũng có thể bù trừ với nghĩa vụ trả tiền.

Section 1237. Original section/article: 379. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Những trường hợp không được bù trừ nghĩa vụ Nghĩa vụ không được bù trừ trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nghĩa vụ đang có tranh chấp;
2. Nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại do xâm phạm tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín;
3. Nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng;
4. Nghĩa vụ khác do luật quy định.

Section 1238. Original section/article: 380. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ do hòa nhập bên có nghĩa vụ và bên có quyền Khi bên có nghĩa vụ trở thành bên có quyền đối với chính nghĩa vụ đó thì nghĩa vụ chấm dứt.

Section 1239. Original section/article: 381. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ do hết thời hiệu miễn trừ nghĩa vụ Khi thời hiệu miễn trừ nghĩa vụ đã hết thì nghĩa vụ chấm dứt.

Section 1240. Original section/article: 382. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ khi bên có quyền là cá nhân chết hoặc pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại 
Khi các bên có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định về việc nghĩa vụ được thực hiện chỉ dành cho cá nhân hoặc pháp nhân là bên có quyền mà cá nhân chết hoặc pháp nhân chấm dứt tồn tại thì nghĩa vụ cũng chấm dứt.

Section 1241. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ khi vật đặc định không còn Nghĩa vụ giao vật chấm dứt trong trường hợp vật phải giao là vật đặc định không còn.
Các bên có thể thỏa thuận thay thế vật khác hoặc bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1242. Original section/article: 384. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt nghĩa vụ trong trường hợp phá sản Trường hợp phá sản thì nghĩa vụ chấm dứt theo quy định của Luật phá sản.
Mục 7. HỢP ĐỒNG 
Tiểu mục 1. GIAO KẾT HỢP ĐỒNG

Section 1243. Original section/article: 385. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Khái niệm hợp đồng 
Hợp đồng là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên về việc xác lập, thay đổi hoặc chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự.

Section 1244. Original section/article: 386. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng là việc thể hiện rõ ý định giao kết hợp đồng và chịu sự ràng buộc về đề nghị này của bên đề nghị đối với bên đã được xác định hoặc tới công chúng (sau đây gọi chung là bên được đề nghị).
2. Trường hợp đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có nêu rõ thời hạn trả lời, nếu bên đề nghị lại giao kết hợp đồng với người thứ ba trong thời hạn chờ bên được đề nghị trả lời thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên được đề nghị mà không được giao kết hợp đồng nếu có thiệt hại phát sinh.

Section 1245. Original section/article: 387. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thông tin trong giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Trường hợp một bên có thông tin ảnh hưởng đến việc chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng của bên kia thì phải thông báo cho bên kia biết.
2. Trường hợp một bên nhận được thông tin bí mật của bên kia trong quá trình giao kết hợp đồng thì có trách nhiệm bảo mật thông tin và không được sử dụng thông tin đó cho mục đích riêng của mình hoặc cho mục đích trái pháp luật khác.
3. Bên vi phạm quy định tại khoản 1, khoản 2 Điều này mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1246. Original section/article: 388. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có hiệu lực 1. Thời điểm đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có hiệu lực được xác định như sau:
a) Do bên đề nghị ấn định;
b) Nếu bên đề nghị không ấn định thì đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có hiệu lực kể từ khi bên được đề nghị nhận được đề nghị đó, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.
2. Các trường hợp sau đây được coi là đã nhận được đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng:
a) Đề nghị được chuyển đến nơi cư trú, nếu bên được đề nghị là cá nhân; được chuyển đến trụ sở, nếu bên được đề nghị là pháp nhân;
b) Đề nghị được đưa vào hệ thống thông tin chính thức của bên được đề nghị;
c) Khi bên được đề nghị biết được đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng thông qua các phương thức khác.

Section 1247. Original section/article: 389. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi, rút lại đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Bên đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có thể thay đổi, rút lại đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Bên được đề nghị nhận được thông báo về việc thay đổi hoặc rút lại đề nghị trước hoặc cùng với thời điểm nhận được đề nghị;
b) Điều kiện thay đổi hoặc rút lại đề nghị phát sinh trong trường hợp bên đề nghị có nêu rõ về việc được thay đổi hoặc rút lại đề nghị khi điều kiện đó phát sinh.
2. Khi bên đề nghị thay đổi nội dung của đề nghị thì đó là đề nghị mới.

Section 1248. Original section/article: 390. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng 
Bên đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có thể hủy bỏ đề nghị nếu đã nêu rõ quyền này trong đề nghị và bên được đề nghị nhận được thông báo về việc hủy bỏ đề nghị trước khi người này gửi thông báo chấp nhận đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng.

Section 1249. Original section/article: 391. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng Đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Bên được đề nghị chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng;
2. Bên được đề nghị trả lời không chấp nhận;
3. Hết thời hạn trả lời chấp nhận;
4. Khi thông báo về việc thay đổi hoặc rút lại đề nghị có hiệu lực;
5. Khi thông báo về việc hủy bỏ đề nghị có hiệu lực;
6. Theo thỏa thuận của bên đề nghị và bên được đề nghị trong thời hạn chờ bên được đề nghị trả lời.

Section 1250. Original section/article: 392. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sửa đổi đề nghị do bên được đề nghị đề xuất 
Khi bên được đề nghị đã chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng nhưng có nêu điều kiện hoặc sửa đổi đề nghị thì coi như người này đã đưa ra đề nghị mới.

Section 1251. Original section/article: 393. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấp nhận đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Chấp nhận đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng là sự trả lời của bên được đề nghị về việc chấp nhận toàn bộ nội dung của đề nghị.
2. Sự im lặng của bên được đề nghị không được coi là chấp nhận đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận hoặc theo thói quen đã được xác lập giữa các bên.

Section 1252. Original section/article: 394. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn trả lời chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Khi bên đề nghị có ấn định thời hạn trả lời thì việc trả lời chấp nhận chỉ có hiệu lực khi được thực hiện trong thời hạn đó; nếu bên đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng nhận được trả lời khi đã hết thời hạn trả lời thì chấp nhận này được coi là đề nghị mới của bên chậm trả lời.
Khi bên đề nghị không nêu rõ thời hạn trả lời thì việc trả lời chấp nhận chỉ có hiệu lực nếu được thực hiện trong một thời hạn hợp lý.
2. Trường hợp thông báo chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng đến chậm vì lý do khách quan mà bên đề nghị biết hoặc phải biết về lý do khách quan này thì thông báo chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng vẫn có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp bên đề nghị trả lời ngay không đồng ý với chấp nhận đó của bên được đề nghị.
3. Khi các bên trực tiếp giao tiếp với nhau, kể cả trong trường hợp qua điện thoại hoặc qua phương tiện khác thì bên được đề nghị phải trả lời ngay có chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về thời hạn trả lời.

Section 1253. Original section/article: 395. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trường hợp bên đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng chết, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi 
Trường hợp bên đề nghị chết, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi sau khi bên được đề nghị trả lời chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng thì đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng vẫn có giá trị, trừ trường hợp nội dung giao kết gắn liền với nhân thân bên đề nghị.

Section 1254. Original section/article: 396. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trường hợp bên được đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng chết, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi 
Trường hợp bên được đề nghị đã chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng nhưng sau đó chết, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì việc trả lời chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng vẫn có giá trị, trừ trường hợp nội dung giao kết gắn liền với nhân thân bên được đề nghị.

Section 1255. Original section/article: 397. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rút lại thông báo chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng 
Bên được đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng có thể rút lại thông báo chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng, nếu thông báo về việc rút lại này đến trước hoặc cùng với thời điểm bên đề nghị nhận được trả lời chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng.

Section 1256. Original section/article: 398. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung của hợp đồng 
1. Các bên trong hợp đồng có quyền thỏa thuận về nội dung trong hợp đồng.
2. Hợp đồng có thể có các nội dung sau đây:
a) Đối tượng của hợp đồng;
b) Số lượng, chất lượng;
c) Giá, phương thức thanh toán;
d) Thời hạn, địa điểm, phương thức thực hiện hợp đồng;
đ) Quyền, nghĩa vụ của các bên;
e) Trách nhiệm do vi phạm hợp đồng;
g) Phương thức giải quyết tranh chấp.

Section 1257. Original section/article: 399. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Địa điểm giao kết hợp đồng 
Địa điểm giao kết hợp đồng do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì địa điểm giao kết hợp đồng là nơi cư trú của cá nhân hoặc trụ sở của pháp nhân đã đưa ra đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng.

Section 1258. Original section/article: 400. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng 1. Hợp đồng được giao kết vào thời điểm bên đề nghị nhận được chấp nhận giao kết.
2. Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận im lặng là sự trả lời chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng trong một thời hạn thì thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng là thời điểm cuối cùng của thời hạn đó.
3. Thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng bằng lời nói là thời điểm các bên đã thỏa thuận về nội dung của hợp đồng.
4. Thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng bằng văn bản là thời điểm bên sau cùng ký vào văn bản hay bằng hình thức chấp nhận khác được thể hiện trên văn bản.
Trường hợp hợp đồng giao kết bằng lời nói và sau đó được xác lập bằng văn bản thì thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng được xác định theo khoản 3 Điều này.

Section 1259. Original section/article: 401. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của hợp đồng 
1. Hợp đồng được giao kết hợp pháp có hiệu lực từ thời điểm giao kết, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật liên quan có quy định khác.
2. Từ thời điểm hợp đồng có hiệu lực, các bên phải thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ đối với nhau theo cam kết. Hợp đồng chỉ có thể bị sửa đổi hoặc hủy bỏ theo thỏa thuận của các bên hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1260. Original section/article: 402. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Các loại hợp đồng chủ yếu Hợp đồng gồm các loại chủ yếu sau đây:
1. Hợp đồng song vụ là hợp đồng mà mỗi bên đều có nghĩa vụ đối với nhau.
2. Hợp đồng đơn vụ là hợp đồng mà chỉ một bên có nghĩa vụ.
3. Hợp đồng chính là hợp đồng mà hiệu lực không phụ thuộc vào hợp đồng phụ.
4. Hợp đồng phụ là hợp đồng mà hiệu lực phụ thuộc vào hợp đồng chính.
5. Hợp đồng vì lợi ích của người thứ ba là hợp đồng mà các bên giao kết hợp đồng đều phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ và người thứ ba được hưởng lợi ích từ việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ đó.
6. Hợp đồng có điều kiện là hợp đồng mà việc thực hiện phụ thuộc vào việc phát sinh, thay đổi hoặc chấm dứt một sự kiện nhất định.

Section 1261. Original section/article: 403. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phụ lục hợp đồng 
1. Hợp đồng có thể có phụ lục kèm theo để quy định chi tiết một số điều khoản của hợp đồng. Phụ lục hợp đồng có hiệu lực như hợp đồng. Nội dung của phụ lục hợp đồng không được trái với nội dung của hợp đồng.
2. Trường hợp phụ lục hợp đồng có điều khoản trái với nội dung của điều khoản trong hợp đồng thì điều khoản này không có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Trường hợp các bên chấp nhận phụ lục hợp đồng có điều khoản trái với điều khoản trong hợp đồng thì coi như điều khoản đó trong hợp đồng đã được sửa đổi.

Section 1262. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giải thích hợp đồng 
1. Khi hợp đồng có điều khoản không rõ ràng thì việc giải thích điều khoản đó không chỉ dựa vào ngôn từ của hợp đồng mà còn phải căn cứ vào ý chí của các bên được thể hiện trong toàn bộ quá trình trước, tại thời điểm xác lập, thực hiện hợp đồng.
2. Khi hợp đồng có điều khoản hoặc ngôn từ có thể hiểu theo nhiều nghĩa khác nhau thì phải giải thích theo nghĩa phù hợp nhất với mục đích, tính chất của hợp đồng.
3. Khi hợp đồng có điều khoản hoặc ngôn từ khó hiểu thì phải được giải thích theo tập quán tại địa điểm giao kết hợp đồng.
4. Các điều khoản trong hợp đồng phải được giải thích trong mối liên hệ với nhau, sao cho ý nghĩa của các điều khoản đó phù hợp với toàn bộ nội dung hợp đồng.
5. Trường hợp có sự mâu thuẫn giữa ý chí chung của các bên với ngôn từ sử dụng trong hợp đồng thì ý chí chung của các bên được dùng để giải thích hợp đồng.
6. Trường hợp bên soạn thảo đưa vào hợp đồng nội dung bất lợi cho bên kia thì khi giải thích hợp đồng phải theo hướng có lợi cho bên kia.

Section 1263. Original section/article: 405. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng theo mẫu 
1. Hợp đồng theo mẫu là hợp đồng gồm những điều khoản do một bên đưa ra theo mẫu để bên kia trả lời trong một thời gian hợp lý; nếu bên được đề nghị trả lời chấp nhận thì coi như chấp nhận toàn bộ nội dung hợp đồng theo mẫu mà bên đề nghị đã đưa ra.
Hợp đồng theo mẫu phải được công khai để bên được đề nghị biết hoặc phải biết về những nội dung của hợp đồng.
Trình tự, thể thức công khai hợp đồng theo mẫu thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp hợp đồng theo mẫu có điều khoản không rõ ràng thì bên đưa ra hợp đồng theo mẫu phải chịu bất lợi khi giải thích điều khoản đó.
3. Trường hợp hợp đồng theo mẫu có điều khoản miễn trách nhiệm của bên đưa ra hợp đồng theo mẫu, tăng trách nhiệm hoặc loại bỏ quyền lợi chính đáng của bên kia thì điều khoản này không có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1264. Original section/article: 406. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện giao dịch chung trong giao kết hợp đồng 
1. Điều kiện giao dịch chung là những điều khoản ổn định do một bên công bố để áp dụng chung cho bên được đề nghị giao kết hợp đồng; nếu bên được đề nghị chấp nhận giao kết hợp đồng thì coi như chấp nhận các điều khoản này.
2. Điều kiện giao dịch chung chỉ có hiệu lực với bên xác lập giao dịch trong trường hợp điều kiện giao dịch này đã được công khai để bên xác lập giao dịch biết hoặc phải biết về điều kiện đó.
Trình tự, thể thức công khai điều kiện giao dịch chung thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Điều kiện giao dịch chung phải bảo đảm sự bình đẳng giữa các bên. Trường hợp điều kiện giao dịch chung có quy định về miễn trách nhiệm của bên đưa ra điều kiện giao dịch chung, tăng trách nhiệm hoặc loại bỏ quyền lợi chính đáng của bên kia thì quy định này không có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1265. Original section/article: 407. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng vô hiệu 
1. Quy định về giao dịch dân sự vô hiệu từ

Section 1266. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này cũng được áp dụng đối với hợp đồng vô hiệu.
2. Sự vô hiệu của hợp đồng chính làm chấm dứt hợp đồng phụ, trừ trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận hợp đồng phụ được thay thế hợp đồng chính. Quy định này không áp dụng đối với biện pháp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
3. Sự vô hiệu của hợp đồng phụ không làm chấm dứt hợp đồng chính, trừ trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận hợp đồng phụ là một phần không thể tách rời của hợp đồng chính.

Section 1267. Original section/article: 408. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng vô hiệu do có đối tượng không thể thực hiện được 
1. Trường hợp ngay từ khi giao kết, hợp đồng có đối tượng không thể thực hiện được thì hợp đồng này bị vô hiệu.
2. Trường hợp khi giao kết hợp đồng mà một bên biết hoặc phải biết về việc hợp đồng có đối tượng không thể thực hiện được nhưng không thông báo cho bên kia biết nên bên kia đã giao kết hợp đồng thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên kia, trừ trường hợp bên kia biết hoặc phải biết về việc hợp đồng có đối tượng không thể thực hiện được.
3. Quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này cũng được áp dụng đối với trường hợp hợp đồng có một hoặc nhiều phần đối tượng không thể thực hiện được nhưng phần còn lại của hợp đồng vẫn có hiệu lực.
Tiểu mục 2. THỰC HIỆN HỢP ĐỒNG

Section 1268. Original section/article: 409. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng đơn vụ 
Đối với hợp đồng đơn vụ, bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đúng như đã thỏa thuận, chỉ được thực hiện trước hoặc sau thời hạn nếu được bên có quyền đồng ý.

Section 1269. Original section/article: 410. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng song vụ 
1. Trong hợp đồng song vụ, khi các bên đã thỏa thuận thời hạn thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì mỗi bên phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ của mình khi đến hạn; không được hoãn thực hiện với lý do bên kia chưa thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1270. Original section/article: 413. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp các bên không thỏa thuận bên nào thực hiện nghĩa vụ trước thì các bên phải đồng thời thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với nhau; nếu nghĩa vụ không thể thực hiện đồng thời thì nghĩa vụ nào khi thực hiện mất nhiều thời gian hơn thì nghĩa vụ đó phải được thực hiện trước.

Section 1271. Original section/article: 411. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền hoãn thực hiện nghĩa vụ trong hợp đồng song vụ 
1. Bên phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ trước có quyền hoãn thực hiện nghĩa vụ, nếu khả năng thực hiện nghĩa vụ của bên kia đã bị giảm sút nghiêm trọng đến mức không thể thực hiện được nghĩa vụ như đã cam kết cho đến khi bên kia có khả năng thực hiện được nghĩa vụ hoặc có biện pháp bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ.
2. Bên phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ sau có quyền hoãn thực hiện nghĩa vụ đến hạn nếu bên thực hiện nghĩa vụ trước chưa thực hiện nghĩa vụ của mình khi đến hạn.

Section 1272. Original section/article: 412. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cầm giữ tài sản trong hợp đồng song vụ 
Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ của mình thì bên có quyền xác lập quyền cầm giữ tài sản đối với tài sản của bên có nghĩa vụ theo quy định từ

Section 1273. Original section/article: 413. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ không thực hiện được do lỗi của một bên 
Trong hợp đồng song vụ, khi một bên không thực hiện được nghĩa vụ của mình do lỗi của bên kia thì có quyền yêu cầu bên kia vẫn phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình hoặc hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1274. Original section/article: 414. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Không thực hiện được nghĩa vụ nhưng không do lỗi của các bên 
Trong hợp đồng song vụ, nếu một bên không thực hiện được nghĩa vụ mà các bên đều không có lỗi thì bên không thực hiện được nghĩa vụ không có quyền yêu cầu bên kia thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình. Trường hợp một bên đã thực hiện được một phần nghĩa vụ thì có quyền yêu cầu bên kia thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ tương ứng đối với mình.

Section 1275. Original section/article: 415. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng vì lợi ích của người thứ ba 
Khi thực hiện hợp đồng vì lợi ích của người thứ ba thì người thứ ba có quyền trực tiếp yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đối với mình; nếu các bên trong hợp đồng có tranh chấp về việc thực hiện hợp đồng thì người thứ ba không có quyền yêu cầu thực hiện nghĩa vụ cho đến khi tranh chấp được giải quyết.
Bên có quyền cũng có thể yêu cầu bên có nghĩa vụ thực hiện hợp đồng vì lợi ích của người thứ ba.

Section 1276. Original section/article: 416. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền từ chối của người thứ ba 
1. Trường hợp người thứ ba từ chối lợi ích của mình trước khi bên có nghĩa vụ thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì bên có nghĩa vụ không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ, nhưng phải thông báo cho bên có quyền và hợp đồng được coi là bị hủy bỏ, các bên phải hoàn trả cho nhau những gì đã nhận.
2. Trường hợp người thứ ba từ chối lợi ích của mình sau khi bên có nghĩa vụ đã thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì nghĩa vụ được xem là đã hoàn thành và bên có quyền vẫn phải thực hiện cam kết đối với bên có nghĩa vụ. Trong trường hợp này, lợi ích phát sinh từ hợp đồng thuộc về bên mà nếu hợp đồng không vì lợi ích của người thứ ba thì họ là người thụ hưởng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1277. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Không được sửa đổi hoặc hủy bỏ hợp đồng vì lợi ích của người thứ ba 
Khi người thứ ba đã đồng ý hưởng lợi ích thì dù hợp đồng chưa được thực hiện, các bên giao kết hợp đồng cũng không được sửa đổi hoặc hủy bỏ hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp được người thứ ba đồng ý.

Section 1278. Original section/article: 418. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thỏa thuận phạt vi phạm 
1. Phạt vi phạm là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên trong hợp đồng, theo đó bên vi phạm nghĩa vụ phải nộp một khoản tiền cho bên bị vi phạm.
2. Mức phạt vi phạm do các bên thỏa thuận, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác.
3. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về việc bên vi phạm nghĩa vụ chỉ phải chịu phạt vi phạm mà không phải bồi thường thiệt hại hoặc vừa phải chịu phạt vi phạm và vừa phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về phạt vi phạm nhưng không thỏa thuận về việc vừa phải chịu phạt vi phạm và vừa phải bồi thường thiệt hại thì bên vi phạm nghĩa vụ chỉ phải chịu phạt vi phạm.

Section 1279. Original section/article: 419. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại được bồi thường do vi phạm hợp đồng 
1. Thiệt hại được bồi thường do vi phạm nghĩa vụ theo hợp đồng được xác định theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này,

Section 1280. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Người có quyền có thể yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại cho lợi ích mà lẽ ra mình sẽ được hưởng do hợp đồng mang lại. Người có quyền còn có thể yêu cầu người có nghĩa vụ chi trả chi phí phát sinh do không hoàn thành nghĩa vụ hợp đồng mà không trùng lặp với mức bồi thường thiệt hại cho lợi ích mà hợp đồng mang lại.
3. Theo yêu cầu của người có quyền, Tòa án có thể buộc người có nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại về tinh thần cho người có quyền. Mức bồi thường do Tòa án quyết định căn cứ vào nội dung vụ việc.

Section 1281. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng khi hoàn cảnh thay đổi cơ bản 1. Hoàn cảnh thay đổi cơ bản khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Sự thay đổi hoàn cảnh do nguyên nhân khách quan xảy ra sau khi giao kết hợp đồng;
b) Tại thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng, các bên không thể lường trước được về sự thay đổi hoàn cảnh;
c) Hoàn cảnh thay đổi lớn đến mức nếu như các bên biết trước thì hợp đồng đã không được giao kết hoặc được giao kết nhưng với nội dung hoàn toàn khác;
d) Việc tiếp tục thực hiện hợp đồng mà không có sự thay đổi nội dung hợp đồng sẽ gây thiệt hại nghiêm trọng cho một bên;
đ) Bên có lợi ích bị ảnh hưởng đã áp dụng mọi biện pháp cần thiết trong khả năng cho phép, phù hợp với tính chất của hợp đồng mà không thể ngăn chặn, giảm thiểu mức độ ảnh hưởng đến lợi ích.
2. Trong trường hợp hoàn cảnh thay đổi cơ bản, bên có lợi ích bị ảnh hưởng có quyền yêu cầu bên kia đàm phán lại hợp đồng trong một thời hạn hợp lý.
3. Trường hợp các bên không thể thỏa thuận được về việc sửa đổi hợp đồng trong một thời hạn hợp lý, một trong các bên có thể yêu cầu Tòa án:
a) Chấm dứt hợp đồng tại một thời điểm xác định;
b) Sửa đổi hợp đồng để cân bằng quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của các bên do hoàn cảnh thay đổi cơ bản.
Tòa án chỉ được quyết định việc sửa đổi hợp đồng trong trường hợp việc chấm dứt hợp đồng sẽ gây thiệt hại lớn hơn so với các chi phí để thực hiện hợp đồng nếu được sửa đổi.
4. Trong quá trình đàm phán sửa đổi, chấm dứt hợp đồng, Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc, các bên vẫn phải tiếp tục thực hiện nghĩa vụ của mình theo hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Tiểu mục 3. SỬA ĐỔI, CHẤM DỨT HỢP ĐỒNG

Section 1282. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sửa đổi hợp đồng 1. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận sửa đổi hợp đồng.
2. Hợp đồng có thể được sửa đổi theo quy định tại

Section 1283. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Hợp đồng sửa đổi phải tuân theo hình thức của hợp đồng ban đầu.

Section 1284. Original section/article: 422. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt hợp đồng Hợp đồng chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Hợp đồng đã được hoàn thành;
2. Theo thỏa thuận của các bên;
3. Cá nhân giao kết hợp đồng chết, pháp nhân giao kết hợp đồng chấm dứt tồn tại mà hợp đồng phải do chính cá nhân, pháp nhân đó thực hiện;
4. Hợp đồng bị hủy bỏ, bị đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện;
5. Hợp đồng không thể thực hiện được do đối tượng của hợp đồng không còn;
6. Hợp đồng chấm dứt theo quy định tại

Section 1285. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
7. Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.

Section 1286. Original section/article: 423. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ hợp đồng 
1. Một bên có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng và không phải bồi thường thiệt hại trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Bên kia vi phạm hợp đồng là điều kiện hủy bỏ mà các bên đã thỏa thuận;
b) Bên kia vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ hợp đồng;
c) Trường hợp khác do luật quy định.
2. Vi phạm nghiêm trọng là việc không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ của một bên đến mức làm cho bên kia không đạt được mục đích của việc giao kết hợp đồng.
3. Bên hủy bỏ hợp đồng phải thông báo ngay cho bên kia biết về việc hủy bỏ, nếu không thông báo mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1287. Original section/article: 424. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ hợp đồng do chậm thực hiện nghĩa vụ 
1. Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ mà bên có quyền yêu cầu thực hiện nghĩa vụ trong một thời hạn hợp lý nhưng bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện thì bên có quyền có thể hủy bỏ hợp đồng.
2. Trường hợp do tính chất của hợp đồng hoặc do ý chí của các bên, hợp đồng sẽ không đạt được mục đích nếu không được thực hiện trong thời hạn nhất định mà hết thời hạn đó bên có nghĩa vụ không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ thì bên kia có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng mà không phải tuân theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 1288. Original section/article: 425. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ hợp đồng do không có khả năng thực hiện 
Trường hợp bên có nghĩa vụ không thể thực hiện được một phần hoặc toàn bộ nghĩa vụ của mình làm cho mục đích của bên có quyền không thể đạt được thì bên có quyền có thể hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1289. Original section/article: 426. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ hợp đồng trong trường hợp tài sản bị mất, bị hư hỏng 
Trường hợp một bên làm mất, làm hư hỏng tài sản là đối tượng của hợp đồng mà không thể hoàn trả, đền bù bằng tài sản khác hoặc không thể sửa chữa, thay thế bằng tài sản cùng loại thì bên kia có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng.
Bên vi phạm phải bồi thường bằng tiền ngang với giá trị của tài sản bị mất, bị hư hỏng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc theo quy định tại khoản 2, khoản 3

Section 1290. Original section/article: 427. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của việc hủy bỏ hợp đồng 
1. Khi hợp đồng bị hủy bỏ thì hợp đồng không có hiệu lực từ thời điểm giao kết, các bên không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ đã thỏa thuận, trừ thỏa thuận về phạt vi phạm, bồi thường thiệt hại và thỏa thuận về giải quyết tranh chấp.
2. Các bên phải hoàn trả cho nhau những gì đã nhận sau khi trừ chi phí hợp lý trong thực hiện hợp đồng và chi phí bảo quản, phát triển tài sản.
Việc hoàn trả được thực hiện bằng hiện vật. Trường hợp không hoàn trả được bằng hiện vật thì được trị giá thành tiền để hoàn trả.
Trường hợp các bên cùng có nghĩa vụ hoàn trả thì việc hoàn trả phải được thực hiện cùng một thời điểm, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Bên bị thiệt hại do hành vi vi phạm nghĩa vụ của bên kia được bồi thường.
4. Việc giải quyết hậu quả của việc hủy bỏ hợp đồng liên quan đến quyền nhân thân do Bộ luật này và luật khác có liên quan quy định.
5. Trường hợp việc hủy bỏ hợp đồng không có căn cứ quy định tại các

Section 1291. Original section/article: 423. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
, 424, 425 và 426 của Bộ luật này thì bên hủy bỏ hợp đồng được xác định là bên vi phạm nghĩa vụ và phải thực hiện trách nhiệm dân sự do không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan.

Section 1292. Original section/article: 428. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng 
1. Một bên có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và không phải bồi thường thiệt hại khi bên kia vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ trong hợp đồng hoặc các bên có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.
2. Bên đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng phải thông báo ngay cho bên kia biết về việc chấm dứt hợp đồng, nếu không thông báo mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.
3. Khi hợp đồng bị đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện thì hợp đồng chấm dứt kể từ thời điểm bên kia nhận được thông báo chấm dứt. Các bên không phải tiếp tục thực hiện nghĩa vụ, trừ thỏa thuận về phạt vi phạm, bồi thường thiệt hại và thỏa thuận về giải quyết tranh chấp. Bên đã thực hiện nghĩa vụ có quyền yêu cầu bên kia thanh toán phần nghĩa vụ đã thực hiện.
4. Bên bị thiệt hại do hành vi không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ trong hợp đồng của bên kia được bồi thường.
5. Trường hợp việc đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng không có căn cứ quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì bên đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng được xác định là bên vi phạm nghĩa vụ và phải thực hiện trách nhiệm dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan do không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ trong hợp đồng.

Section 1293. Original section/article: 429. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu khởi kiện về hợp đồng 
Thời hiệu khởi kiện để yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết tranh chấp hợp đồng là 03 năm, kể từ ngày người có quyền yêu cầu biết hoặc phải biết quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình bị xâm phạm.
Chương XVI 
MỘT SỐ HỢP ĐỒNG THÔNG DỤNG 
Mục 1. HỢP ĐỒNG MUA BÁN TÀI SẢN

Section 1294. Original section/article: 430. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng mua bán tài sản 
Hợp đồng mua bán tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên bán chuyển quyền sở hữu tài sản cho bên mua và bên mua trả tiền cho bên bán.
Hợp đồng mua bán nhà ở, mua bán nhà để sử dụng vào mục đích khác được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật nhà ở và luật khác có liên quan.

Section 1295. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của hợp đồng mua bán 
1. Tài sản được quy định tại Bộ luật này đều có thể là đối tượng của hợp đồng mua bán. Trường hợp theo quy định của luật, tài sản bị cấm hoặc bị hạn chế chuyển nhượng thì tài sản là đối tượng của hợp đồng mua bán phải phù hợp với các quy định đó.
2. Tài sản bán thuộc sở hữu của người bán hoặc người bán có quyền bán.

Section 1296. Original section/article: 432. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chất lượng của tài sản mua bán 1. Chất lượng của tài sản mua bán do các bên thỏa thuận.
2. Trường hợp tiêu chuẩn về chất lượng của tài sản đã được công bố hoặc được cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền quy định thì thỏa thuận của các bên về chất lượng của tài sản không được thấp hơn chất lượng của tài sản được xác định theo tiêu chuẩn đã công bố hoặc theo quy định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền.
3. Khi các bên không có thỏa thuận hoặc thỏa thuận không rõ ràng về chất lượng tài sản mua bán thì chất lượng của tài sản mua bán được xác định theo tiêu chuẩn về chất lượng của tài sản đã được công bố, quy định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền hoặc theo tiêu chuẩn ngành nghề.
Trường hợp không có tiêu chuẩn về chất lượng của tài sản đã được công bố, quy định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền và tiêu chuẩn ngành nghề thì chất lượng của tài sản mua bán được xác định theo tiêu chuẩn thông thường hoặc theo tiêu chuẩn riêng phù hợp với mục đích giao kết hợp đồng và theo quy định của Luật bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng.

Section 1297. Original section/article: 433. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giá và phương thức thanh toán 
1. Giá, phương thức thanh toán do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc do người thứ ba xác định theo yêu cầu của các bên. Trường hợp pháp luật quy định giá, phương thức thanh toán phải theo quy định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền thì thỏa thuận của các bên phải phù hợp với quy định đó.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận hoặc thỏa thuận không rõ ràng về giá, phương thức thanh toán thì giá được xác định theo giá thị trường, phương thức thanh toán được xác định theo tập quán tại địa điểm và thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng.

Section 1298. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn thực hiện hợp đồng mua bán 
1. Thời hạn thực hiện hợp đồng mua bán do các bên thỏa thuận. Bên bán phải giao tài sản cho bên mua đúng thời hạn đã thỏa thuận; bên bán chỉ được giao tài sản trước hoặc sau thời hạn nếu được bên mua đồng ý.
2. Khi các bên không thỏa thuận thời hạn giao tài sản thì bên mua có quyền yêu cầu bên bán giao tài sản và bên bán cũng có quyền yêu cầu bên mua nhận tài sản bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho nhau một thời gian hợp lý.
3. Bên mua thanh toán tiền mua theo thời gian thỏa thuận. Nếu không xác định hoặc xác định không rõ ràng thời gian thanh toán thì bên mua phải thanh toán ngay tại thời điểm nhận tài sản mua hoặc nhận giấy tờ chứng nhận quyền sở hữu tài sản.

Section 1299. Original section/article: 435. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Địa điểm giao tài sản 
Địa điểm giao tài sản do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì áp dụng quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1300. Original section/article: 436. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phương thức giao tài sản 
1. Tài sản được giao theo phương thức do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì tài sản do bên bán giao một lần và trực tiếp cho bên mua.
2. Trường hợp theo thỏa thuận, bên bán giao tài sản cho bên mua thành nhiều lần mà bên bán thực hiện không đúng nghĩa vụ ở một lần nhất định thì bên mua có thể hủy bỏ phần hợp đồng liên quan đến lần vi phạm đó và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1301. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do giao tài sản không đúng số lượng 
1. Trường hợp bên bán giao tài sản với số lượng nhiều hơn số lượng đã thỏa thuận thì bên mua có quyền nhận hoặc không nhận phần dôi ra; nếu nhận thì phải thanh toán đối với phần dôi ra theo giá được thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp bên bán giao ít hơn số lượng đã thỏa thuận thì bên mua có một trong các quyền sau đây:
a) Nhận phần đã giao và định thời hạn để bên bán giao tiếp phần còn thiếu;
b) Nhận phần đã giao và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại;
c) Hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại nếu việc vi phạm làm cho bên mua không đạt được mục đích giao kết hợp đồng.

Section 1302. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do giao vật không đồng bộ 
1. Trường hợp vật được giao không đồng bộ làm cho mục đích sử dụng của vật không đạt được thì bên mua có một trong các quyền sau đây:
a) Nhận và yêu cầu bên bán giao tiếp phần hoặc bộ phận còn thiếu, yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại và hoãn thanh toán phần hoặc bộ phận đã nhận cho đến khi vật được giao đồng bộ;
b) Hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Trường hợp bên mua đã trả tiền nhưng chưa nhận vật do giao không đồng bộ thì được trả lãi đối với số tiền đã trả theo lãi suất thỏa thuận giữa các bên nhưng không được vượt quá mức lãi suất được quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1303. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1304. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và yêu cầu bên bán bồi thường thiệt hại do giao vật không đồng bộ, kể từ thời điểm phải thực hiện hợp đồng cho đến khi vật được giao đồng bộ.

Section 1305. Original section/article: 439. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm giao tài sản không đúng chủng loại 
Trường hợp tài sản được giao không đúng chủng loại thì bên mua có một trong các quyền sau đây:
1. Nhận và thanh toán theo giá do các bên thỏa thuận.
2. Yêu cầu giao tài sản đúng chủng loại và bồi thường thiệt hại.
3. Hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại nếu việc giao không đúng chủng loại làm cho bên mua không đạt được mục đích giao kết hợp đồng.
Trường hợp tài sản gồm nhiều chủng loại mà bên bán không giao đúng với thỏa thuận đối với một hoặc một số loại thì bên mua có thể hủy bỏ phần hợp đồng liên quan đến loại tài sản đó và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1306. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ trả tiền 
1. Bên mua có nghĩa vụ thanh toán tiền theo thời hạn, địa điểm và mức tiền được quy định trong hợp đồng.
2. Trường hợp các bên chỉ có thỏa thuận về thời hạn giao tài sản thì thời hạn thanh toán tiền cũng được xác định tương ứng với thời hạn giao tài sản. Nếu các bên không có thỏa thuận về thời hạn giao tài sản và thời hạn thanh toán tiền thì bên mua phải thanh toán tiền tại thời điểm nhận tài sản.
3. Trường hợp bên mua không thực hiện đúng nghĩa vụ trả tiền thì phải trả lãi trên số tiền chậm trả theo quy định tại

Section 1307. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm chịu rủi ro 
1. Bên bán chịu rủi ro đối với tài sản trước khi tài sản được giao cho bên mua, bên mua chịu rủi ro đối với tài sản kể từ thời điểm nhận tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
2. Đối với hợp đồng mua bán tài sản mà pháp luật quy định tài sản đó phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu thì bên bán chịu rủi ro cho đến khi hoàn thành thủ tục đăng ký, bên mua chịu rủi ro kể từ thời điểm hoàn thành thủ tục đăng ký, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1308. Original section/article: 442. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chi phí vận chuyển và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu 
1. Chi phí vận chuyển và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu do các bên thỏa thuận, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận hoặc thỏa thuận không rõ ràng thì chi phí vận chuyển và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu được xác định theo chi phí đã được công bố, quy định của cơ quan có thẩm quyền hoặc theo tiêu chuẩn ngành nghề.
3. Trường hợp không có căn cứ xác định theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì chi phí vận chuyển và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu được xác định theo tiêu chuẩn thông thường hoặc theo tiêu chuẩn riêng phù hợp với mục đích giao kết hợp đồng.
4. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận và pháp luật không quy định về chi phí vận chuyển và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu thì bên bán phải chịu chi phí vận chuyển đến địa điểm giao tài sản và chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyển quyền sở hữu.

Section 1309. Original section/article: 443. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ cung cấp thông tin và hướng dẫn cách sử dụng 
Bên bán có nghĩa vụ cung cấp cho bên mua thông tin cần thiết về tài sản mua bán và hướng dẫn cách sử dụng tài sản đó; nếu bên bán không thực hiện nghĩa vụ này thì bên mua có quyền yêu cầu bên bán phải thực hiện trong một thời hạn hợp lý; nếu bên bán vẫn không thực hiện làm cho bên mua không đạt được mục đích giao kết hợp đồng thì bên mua có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1310. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm quyền sở hữu của bên mua đối với tài sản mua bán 
1. Bên bán có nghĩa vụ bảo đảm quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản đã bán cho bên mua không bị người thứ ba tranh chấp.
2. Trường hợp tài sản bị người thứ ba tranh chấp thì bên bán phải đứng về phía bên mua để bảo vệ quyền lợi của bên mua; nếu người thứ ba có quyền sở hữu một phần hoặc toàn bộ tài sản mua bán thì bên mua có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bên bán bồi thường thiệt hại.
3. Trường hợp bên mua biết hoặc phải biết tài sản mua bán thuộc sở hữu của người thứ ba mà vẫn mua thì phải trả lại tài sản cho chủ sở hữu và không có quyền yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1311. Original section/article: 445. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm chất lượng vật mua bán 
1. Bên bán phải bảo đảm giá trị sử dụng hoặc các đặc tính của vật mua bán; nếu sau khi mua mà bên mua phát hiện khuyết tật làm mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị sử dụng của vật đã mua thì phải báo ngay cho bên bán khi phát hiện ra khuyết tật và có quyền yêu cầu bên bán sửa chữa, đổi vật có khuyết tật lấy vật khác, giảm giá và bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Bên bán phải bảo đảm vật bán phù hợp với sự mô tả trên bao bì, nhãn hiệu hàng hóa hoặc phù hợp với mẫu mà bên mua đã lựa chọn.
3. Bên bán không chịu trách nhiệm về khuyết tật của vật trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Khuyết tật mà bên mua đã biết hoặc phải biết khi mua;
b) Vật bán đấu giá, vật bán ở cửa hàng đồ cũ;
c) Bên mua có lỗi gây ra khuyết tật của vật.

Section 1312. Original section/article: 446. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bảo hành 
Bên bán có nghĩa vụ bảo hành đối với vật mua bán trong một thời hạn, gọi là thời hạn bảo hành, nếu việc bảo hành do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.
Thời hạn bảo hành được tính kể từ thời điểm bên mua có nghĩa vụ phải nhận vật.

Section 1313. Original section/article: 447. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu bảo hành 
Trong thời hạn bảo hành, nếu bên mua phát hiện được khuyết tật của vật mua bán thì có quyền yêu cầu bên bán sửa chữa không phải trả tiền, giảm giá, đổi vật có khuyết tật lấy vật khác hoặc trả lại vật và lấy lại tiền.

Section 1314. Original section/article: 448. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sửa chữa vật trong thời hạn bảo hành 
1. Bên bán phải sửa chữa vật và bảo đảm vật có đủ các tiêu chuẩn chất lượng hoặc có đủ các đặc tính đã cam kết.
2. Bên bán chịu chi phí về sửa chữa và vận chuyển vật đến nơi sửa chữa và từ nơi sửa chữa đến nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở của bên mua.
3. Bên mua có quyền yêu cầu bên bán hoàn thành việc sửa chữa trong thời hạn do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc trong một thời gian hợp lý; nếu bên bán không thể sửa chữa được hoặc không thể hoàn thành việc sửa chữa trong thời hạn đó thì bên mua có quyền yêu cầu giảm giá, đổi vật có khuyết tật lấy vật khác hoặc trả lại vật và lấy lại tiền.

Section 1315. Original section/article: 449. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại trong thời hạn bảo hành 
1. Ngoài việc yêu cầu thực hiện các biện pháp bảo hành, bên mua có quyền yêu cầu bên bán bồi thường thiệt hại do khuyết tật về kỹ thuật của vật gây ra trong thời hạn bảo hành.
2. Bên bán không phải bồi thường thiệt hại nếu chứng minh được thiệt hại xảy ra do lỗi của bên mua. Bên bán được giảm mức bồi thường thiệt hại nếu bên mua không áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết mà khả năng cho phép nhằm ngăn chặn, hạn chế thiệt hại.

Section 1316. Original section/article: 450. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mua bán quyền tài sản 
1. Trường hợp mua bán quyền tài sản thì bên bán phải chuyển giấy tờ và làm thủ tục chuyển quyền sở hữu cho bên mua, bên mua phải trả tiền cho bên bán.
2. Trường hợp quyền tài sản là quyền đòi nợ và bên bán cam kết bảo đảm khả năng thanh toán của người mắc nợ thì bên bán phải liên đới chịu trách nhiệm thanh toán, nếu khi đến hạn mà người mắc nợ không trả.
3. Thời điểm chuyển quyền sở hữu đối với quyền tài sản là thời điểm bên mua nhận được giấy tờ về quyền sở hữu đối với quyền tài sản đó hoặc từ thời điểm đăng ký việc chuyển quyền sở hữu, nếu pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1317. Original section/article: 451. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bán đấu giá tài sản 
Tài sản có thể được đem bán đấu giá theo ý chí của chủ sở hữu hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật. Tài sản thuộc sở hữu chung đem bán đấu giá phải có sự đồng ý của tất cả các chủ sở hữu chung, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
Việc bán đấu giá tài sản phải đảm bảo nguyên tắc khách quan, công khai, minh bạch, bảo đảm quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của các bên tham gia và được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về bán đấu giá tài sản.

Section 1318. Original section/article: 452. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mua sau khi sử dụng thử 
1. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về việc bên mua được dùng thử vật mua trong một thời hạn gọi là thời hạn dùng thử. Trong thời hạn dùng thử, bên mua có thể trả lời mua hoặc không mua; nếu hết thời hạn dùng thử mà bên mua không trả lời thì coi như đã chấp nhận mua theo các điều kiện đã thỏa thuận trước khi nhận vật dùng thử.
Trường hợp các bên không thỏa thuận hoặc thỏa thuận không rõ ràng về thời hạn dùng thử thì thời hạn này được xác định theo tập quán của giao dịch có đối tượng cùng loại.
2. Trong thời hạn dùng thử, vật vẫn thuộc sở hữu của bên bán. Bên bán phải chịu mọi rủi ro xảy ra đối với vật, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Trong thời hạn dùng thử, bên bán không được bán, tặng cho, cho thuê, trao đổi, thế chấp, cầm cố tài sản khi bên mua chưa trả lời.
3. Trường hợp bên dùng thử trả lời không mua thì phải trả lại vật cho bên bán và phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên bán, nếu làm mất, hư hỏng vật dùng thử. Bên dùng thử không phải chịu trách nhiệm về những hao mòn thông thường do việc dùng thử gây ra và không phải hoàn trả hoa lợi do việc dùng thử mang lại.

Section 1319. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Mua trả chậm, trả dần 
1. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về việc bên mua trả chậm hoặc trả dần tiền mua trong một thời hạn sau khi nhận tài sản mua. Bên bán được bảo lưu quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản bán cho đến khi bên mua trả đủ tiền, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Hợp đồng mua trả chậm hoặc trả dần phải được lập thành văn bản. Bên mua có quyền sử dụng tài sản mua trả chậm, trả dần và phải chịu rủi ro trong thời gian sử dụng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1320. Original section/article: 454. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chuộc lại tài sản đã bán 
1. Bên bán có thể thỏa thuận với bên mua về quyền chuộc lại tài sản đã bán sau một thời hạn gọi là thời hạn chuộc lại.
Thời hạn chuộc lại tài sản do các bên thỏa thuận; trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì thời hạn chuộc lại không quá 01 năm đối với động sản và 05 năm đối với bất động sản kể từ thời điểm giao tài sản, trừ trường hợp luật liên quan có quy định khác. Trong thời hạn này, bên bán có quyền chuộc lại bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên mua trong một thời gian hợp lý. Giá chuộc lại là giá thị trường tại thời điểm và địa điểm chuộc lại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trong thời hạn chuộc lại, bên mua không được xác lập giao dịch chuyển quyền sở hữu tài sản cho chủ thể khác và phải chịu rủi ro đối với tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Mục 2. HỢP ĐỒNG TRAO ĐỔI TÀI SẢN

Section 1321. Original section/article: 455. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng trao đổi tài sản 
1. Hợp đồng trao đổi tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó các bên giao tài sản và chuyển quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản cho nhau.
2. Hợp đồng trao đổi tài sản phải được lập thành văn bản, có công chứng, chứng thực hoặc đăng ký, nếu pháp luật có quy định.
3. Trường hợp một bên trao đổi cho bên kia tài sản không thuộc quyền sở hữu của mình hoặc không được chủ sở hữu ủy quyền thì bên kia có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.
4. Mỗi bên đều được coi là người bán đối với tài sản giao cho bên kia và là người mua đối với tài sản nhận về. Các quy định về hợp đồng mua bán từ

Section 1322. Original section/article: 454. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này cũng được áp dụng đối với hợp đồng trao đổi tài sản.

Section 1323. Original section/article: 456. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thanh toán giá trị chênh lệch 
Trường hợp tài sản trao đổi chênh lệch về giá trị thì các bên phải thanh toán cho nhau phần chênh lệch đó, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
Mục 3. HỢP ĐỒNG TẶNG CHO TÀI SẢN

Section 1324. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng tặng cho tài sản 
Hợp đồng tặng cho tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên tặng cho giao tài sản của mình và chuyển quyền sở hữu cho bên được tặng cho mà không yêu cầu đền bù, bên được tặng cho đồng ý nhận.

Section 1325. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tặng cho động sản 
1. Hợp đồng tặng cho động sản có hiệu lực kể từ thời điểm bên được tặng cho nhận tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Đối với động sản mà luật có quy định đăng ký quyền sở hữu thì hợp đồng tặng cho có hiệu lực kể từ thời điểm đăng ký.

Section 1326. Original section/article: 459. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tặng cho bất động sản 
1. Tặng cho bất động sản phải được lập thành văn bản có công chứng, chứng thực hoặc phải đăng ký, nếu bất động sản phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu theo quy định của luật.
2. Hợp đồng tặng cho bất động sản có hiệu lực kể từ thời điểm đăng ký; nếu bất động sản không phải đăng ký quyền sở hữu thì hợp đồng tặng cho có hiệu lực kể từ thời điểm chuyển giao tài sản.

Section 1327. Original section/article: 460. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do cố ý tặng cho tài sản không thuộc sở hữu của mình 
Trường hợp bên tặng cho cố ý tặng cho tài sản không thuộc sở hữu của mình mà bên được tặng cho không biết hoặc không thể biết về việc đó thì bên tặng cho phải thanh toán chi phí để làm tăng giá trị của tài sản cho bên được tặng cho khi chủ sở hữu lấy lại tài sản.

Section 1328. Original section/article: 461. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thông báo khuyết tật của tài sản tặng cho 
Bên tặng cho có nghĩa vụ thông báo cho bên được tặng cho khuyết tật của tài sản tặng cho. Trường hợp bên tặng cho biết tài sản có khuyết tật mà không thông báo thì phải chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại xảy ra cho người được tặng cho; nếu bên tặng cho không biết về khuyết tật của tài sản tặng cho thì không phải chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1329. Original section/article: 462. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tặng cho tài sản có điều kiện 
1. Bên tặng cho có thể yêu cầu bên được tặng cho thực hiện một hoặc nhiều nghĩa vụ trước hoặc sau khi tặng cho. Điều kiện tặng cho không được vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.
2. Trường hợp phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ trước khi tặng cho, nếu bên được tặng cho đã hoàn thành nghĩa vụ mà bên tặng cho không giao tài sản thì bên tặng cho phải thanh toán nghĩa vụ mà bên được tặng cho đã thực hiện.
3. Trường hợp phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ sau khi tặng cho mà bên được tặng cho không thực hiện thì bên tặng cho có quyền đòi lại tài sản và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.
Mục 4. HỢP ĐỒNG VAY TÀI SẢN

Section 1330. Original section/article: 463. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng vay tài sản 
Hợp đồng vay tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên cho vay giao tài sản cho bên vay; khi đến hạn trả, bên vay phải hoàn trả cho bên cho vay tài sản cùng loại theo đúng số lượng, chất lượng và chỉ phải trả lãi nếu có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1331. Original section/article: 464. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản vay Bên vay trở thành chủ sở hữu tài sản vay kể từ thời điểm nhận tài sản đó.

Section 1332. Original section/article: 465. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên cho vay 
1. Giao tài sản cho bên vay đầy đủ, đúng chất lượng, số lượng vào thời điểm và địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
2. Bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên vay, nếu bên cho vay biết tài sản không bảo đảm chất lượng mà không báo cho bên vay biết, trừ trường hợp bên vay biết mà vẫn nhận tài sản đó.
3. Không được yêu cầu bên vay trả lại tài sản trước thời hạn, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1333. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.

Section 1334. Original section/article: 466. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ trả nợ của bên vay 
1. Bên vay tài sản là tiền thì phải trả đủ tiền khi đến hạn; nếu tài sản là vật thì phải trả vật cùng loại đúng số lượng, chất lượng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp bên vay không thể trả vật thì có thể trả bằng tiền theo trị giá của vật đã vay tại địa điểm và thời điểm trả nợ, nếu được bên cho vay đồng ý.
3. Địa điểm trả nợ là nơi cư trú hoặc nơi đặt trụ sở của bên cho vay, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp vay không có lãi mà khi đến hạn bên vay không trả nợ hoặc trả không đầy đủ thì bên cho vay có quyền yêu cầu trả tiền lãi với mức lãi suất theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1335. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này trên số tiền chậm trả tương ứng với thời gian chậm trả, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
5. Trường hợp vay có lãi mà khi đến hạn bên vay không trả hoặc trả không đầy đủ thì bên vay phải trả lãi như sau:
a) Lãi trên nợ gốc theo lãi suất thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng tương ứng với thời hạn vay mà đến hạn chưa trả; trường hợp chậm trả thì còn phải trả lãi theo mức lãi suất quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1336. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Lãi trên nợ gốc quá hạn chưa trả bằng 150% lãi suất vay theo hợp đồng tương ứng với thời gian chậm trả, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1337. Original section/article: 467. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sử dụng tài sản vay 
Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về việc tài sản vay phải được sử dụng đúng mục đích vay. Bên cho vay có quyền kiểm tra việc sử dụng tài sản và có quyền đòi lại tài sản vay trước thời hạn nếu đã nhắc nhở mà bên vay vẫn sử dụng tài sản trái mục đích.

Section 1338. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Lãi suất 1. Lãi suất vay do các bên thỏa thuận.
Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về lãi suất thì lãi suất theo thỏa thuận không được vượt quá 20%/năm của khoản tiền vay, trừ trường hợp luật khác có liên quan quy định khác. Căn cứ tình hình thực tế và theo đề xuất của Chính phủ, Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội quyết định điều chỉnh mức lãi suất nói trên và báo cáo Quốc hội tại kỳ họp gần nhất.
Trường hợp lãi suất theo thỏa thuận vượt quá lãi suất giới hạn được quy định tại khoản này thì mức lãi suất vượt quá không có hiệu lực.
2. Trường hợp các bên có thỏa thuận về việc trả lãi, nhưng không xác định rõ lãi suất và có tranh chấp về lãi suất thì lãi suất được xác định bằng 50% mức lãi suất giới hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này tại thời điểm trả nợ.

Section 1339. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng vay không kỳ hạn 
1. Đối với hợp đồng vay không kỳ hạn và không có lãi thì bên cho vay có quyền đòi lại tài sản và bên vay cũng có quyền trả nợ vào bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo cho nhau biết trước một thời gian hợp lý, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Đối với hợp đồng vay không kỳ hạn và có lãi thì bên cho vay có quyền đòi lại tài sản bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên vay một thời gian hợp lý và được trả lãi đến thời điểm nhận lại tài sản, còn bên vay cũng có quyền trả lại tài sản bất cứ lúc nào và chỉ phải trả lãi cho đến thời điểm trả nợ, nhưng cũng phải báo trước cho bên cho vay một thời gian hợp lý.

Section 1340. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện hợp đồng vay có kỳ hạn 
1. Đối với hợp đồng vay có kỳ hạn và không có lãi thì bên vay có quyền trả lại tài sản bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên cho vay một thời gian hợp lý, còn bên cho vay chỉ được đòi lại tài sản trước kỳ hạn, nếu được bên vay đồng ý.
2. Đối với hợp đồng vay có kỳ hạn và có lãi thì bên vay có quyền trả lại tài sản trước kỳ hạn, nhưng phải trả toàn bộ lãi theo kỳ hạn, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.

Section 1341. Original section/article: 471. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Họ, hụi, biêu, phường 
1. Họ, hụi, biêu, phường (sau đây gọi chung là họ) là hình thức giao dịch về tài sản theo tập quán trên cơ sở thỏa thuận của một nhóm người tập hợp nhau lại cùng định ra số người, thời gian, số tiền hoặc tài sản khác, thể thức góp, lĩnh họ và quyền, nghĩa vụ của các thành viên.
2. Việc tổ chức họ nhằm mục đích tương trợ trong nhân dân được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Trường hợp việc tổ chức họ có lãi thì mức lãi suất phải tuân theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
4. Nghiêm cấm việc tổ chức họ dưới hình thức cho vay nặng lãi.
Mục 5. HỢP ĐỒNG THUÊ TÀI SẢN 
Tiểu mục 1. QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG VỀ HỢP ĐỒNG THUÊ TÀI SẢN

Section 1342. Original section/article: 472. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng thuê tài sản 
Hợp đồng thuê tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên cho thuê giao tài sản cho bên thuê để sử dụng trong một thời hạn, bên thuê phải trả tiền thuê.
Hợp đồng thuê nhà ở, hợp đồng thuê nhà để sử dụng vào mục đích khác được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này, Luật nhà ở và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1343. Original section/article: 473. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giá thuê 
1. Giá thuê do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc do người thứ ba xác định theo yêu cầu của các bên, trừ trường hợp luật có quy định khác.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận hoặc thỏa thuận không rõ ràng thì giá thuê được xác định theo giá thị trường tại địa điểm và thời điểm giao kết hợp đồng thuê.

Section 1344. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn thuê 
1. Thời hạn thuê do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không có thỏa thuận thì được xác định theo mục đích thuê.
2. Trường hợp các bên không thỏa thuận về thời hạn thuê và thời hạn thuê không thể xác định được theo mục đích thuê thì mỗi bên có quyền chấm dứt hợp đồng bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải thông báo cho bên kia trước một thời gian hợp lý.

Section 1345. Original section/article: 475. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cho thuê lại Bên thuê có quyền cho thuê lại tài sản mà mình đã thuê, nếu được bên cho thuê đồng ý.

Section 1346. Original section/article: 476. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao tài sản thuê 
1. Bên cho thuê phải giao tài sản cho bên thuê đúng số lượng, chất lượng, chủng loại, tình trạng, thời điểm, địa điểm đã thỏa thuận và cung cấp thông tin cần thiết về việc sử dụng tài sản đó.
2. Trường hợp bên cho thuê chậm giao tài sản thì bên thuê có thể gia hạn giao tài sản hoặc hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại; nếu tài sản thuê không đúng chất lượng như thỏa thuận thì bên thuê có quyền yêu cầu bên cho thuê sửa chữa, giảm giá thuê hoặc hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1347. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bảo đảm giá trị sử dụng của tài sản thuê 
1. Bên cho thuê phải bảo đảm tài sản thuê trong tình trạng như đã thỏa thuận, phù hợp với mục đích thuê trong suốt thời gian cho thuê; phải sửa chữa những hư hỏng, khuyết tật của tài sản thuê, trừ hư hỏng nhỏ mà theo tập quán bên thuê phải tự sửa chữa.
2. Trường hợp tài sản thuê bị giảm sút giá trị sử dụng mà không do lỗi của bên thuê thì bên thuê có quyền yêu cầu bên cho thuê thực hiện một hoặc một số biện pháp sau đây:
a) Sửa chữa tài sản;
b) Giảm giá thuê;
c) Đổi tài sản khác hoặc đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu tài sản thuê có khuyết tật mà bên thuê không biết hoặc tài sản thuê không thể sửa chữa được mà do đó mục đích thuê không đạt được.
3. Trường hợp bên cho thuê đã được thông báo mà không sửa chữa hoặc sửa chữa không kịp thời thì bên thuê có quyền tự sửa chữa tài sản thuê với chi phí hợp lý, nhưng phải báo cho bên cho thuê và có quyền yêu cầu bên cho thuê thanh toán chi phí sửa chữa.

Section 1348. Original section/article: 478. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bảo đảm quyền sử dụng tài sản cho bên thuê 1. Bên cho thuê phải bảo đảm quyền sử dụng tài sản ổn định cho bên thuê.
2. Trường hợp có tranh chấp về quyền sở hữu đối với tài sản thuê mà bên thuê không được sử dụng tài sản ổn định thì bên thuê có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1349. Original section/article: 479. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bảo quản tài sản thuê 
1. Bên thuê phải bảo quản tài sản thuê, phải bảo dưỡng và sửa chữa nhỏ; nếu làm mất, hư hỏng thì phải bồi thường.
Bên thuê không chịu trách nhiệm về những hao mòn tự nhiên do sử dụng tài sản thuê.
2. Bên thuê có thể tu sửa và làm tăng giá trị tài sản thuê, nếu được bên cho thuê đồng ý và có quyền yêu cầu bên cho thuê thanh toán chi phí hợp lý.

Section 1350. Original section/article: 480. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ sử dụng tài sản thuê đúng công dụng, mục đích 
1. Bên thuê phải sử dụng tài sản thuê theo đúng công dụng của tài sản và đúng mục đích đã thỏa thuận.
2. Trường hợp bên thuê sử dụng tài sản không đúng mục đích, không đúng công dụng thì bên cho thuê có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1351. Original section/article: 481. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả tiền thuê 
1. Bên thuê phải trả đủ tiền thuê đúng thời hạn đã thỏa thuận; nếu không có thỏa thuận về thời hạn trả tiền thuê thì thời hạn trả tiền thuê được xác định theo tập quán nơi trả tiền; nếu không thể xác định được thời hạn theo tập quán thì bên thuê phải trả tiền khi trả lại tài sản thuê.
2. Trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận việc trả tiền thuê theo kỳ hạn thì bên cho thuê có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng, nếu bên thuê không trả tiền trong ba kỳ liên tiếp, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1352. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả lại tài sản thuê 
1. Bên thuê phải trả lại tài sản thuê trong tình trạng như khi nhận, trừ hao mòn tự nhiên hoặc theo đúng như tình trạng đã thỏa thuận; nếu giá trị của tài sản thuê bị giảm sút so với tình trạng khi nhận thì bên cho thuê có quyền yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ hao mòn tự nhiên.
2. Trường hợp tài sản thuê là động sản thì địa điểm trả lại tài sản thuê là nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở của bên cho thuê, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Trường hợp tài sản thuê là gia súc thì bên thuê phải trả lại gia súc đã thuê và cả gia súc được sinh ra trong thời gian thuê, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Bên cho thuê phải thanh toán chi phí chăm sóc gia súc được sinh ra cho bên thuê.
4. Khi bên thuê chậm trả tài sản thuê thì bên cho thuê có quyền yêu cầu bên thuê trả lại tài sản thuê, trả tiền thuê trong thời gian chậm trả và phải bồi thường thiệt hại; bên thuê phải trả tiền phạt vi phạm do chậm trả tài sản thuê, nếu có thỏa thuận.
5. Bên thuê phải chịu rủi ro xảy ra đối với tài sản thuê trong thời gian chậm trả.
Tiểu mục 2. HỢP ĐỒNG THUÊ KHOÁN TÀI SẢN

Section 1353. Original section/article: 483. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng thuê khoán tài sản 
Hợp đồng thuê khoán tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên cho thuê khoán giao tài sản cho bên thuê khoán để khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ tài sản thuê khoán và bên thuê khoán có nghĩa vụ trả tiền thuê.

Section 1354. Original section/article: 484. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của hợp đồng thuê khoán 
Đối tượng của hợp đồng thuê khoán có thể là đất đai, rừng, mặt nước chưa khai thác, gia súc, cơ sở sản xuất, kinh doanh, tư liệu sản xuất khác cùng trang thiết bị cần thiết để khai thác công dụng, hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1355. Original section/article: 485. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn thuê khoán 
Thời hạn thuê khoán do các bên thỏa thuận. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận hoặc có thỏa thuận nhưng không rõ ràng thì thời hạn thuê khoán được xác định theo chu kỳ sản xuất, kinh doanh phù hợp với tính chất của đối tượng thuê khoán.

Section 1356. Original section/article: 486. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giá thuê khoán 
Giá thuê khoán do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu thuê khoán thông qua đấu thầu thì giá thuê khoán là giá được xác định theo kết quả đấu thầu.

Section 1357. Original section/article: 487. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao tài sản thuê khoán 
Khi giao tài sản thuê khoán, các bên phải lập biên bản đánh giá tình trạng của tài sản thuê khoán và xác định giá trị tài sản thuê khoán.
Trường hợp các bên không xác định được giá trị thì mời người thứ ba xác định giá trị và phải lập thành văn bản.

Section 1358. Original section/article: 488. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả tiền thuê khoán và phương thức trả 1. Tiền thuê khoán có thể bằng hiện vật, bằng tiền hoặc bằng việc thực hiện một công việc.
2. Bên thuê khoán phải trả đủ tiền thuê khoán cho dù không khai thác công dụng tài sản thuê khoán.
3. Khi giao kết hợp đồng thuê khoán, các bên có thể thỏa thuận điều kiện về việc giảm tiền thuê khoán; nếu hoa lợi, lợi tức bị mất ít nhất là một phần ba do sự kiện bất khả kháng thì bên thuê khoán có quyền yêu cầu giảm hoặc miễn tiền thuê khoán, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp bên thuê khoán phải trả hiện vật theo thời vụ hoặc theo chu kỳ khai thác công dụng của tài sản thuê khoán thì phải trả vào thời điểm kết thúc thời vụ hoặc kết thúc chu kỳ khai thác, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
5. Trường hợp bên thuê khoán phải thực hiện một công việc thì phải thực hiện đúng công việc đó.
6. Thời hạn trả tiền thuê khoán do các bên thỏa thuận, trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận thì bên thuê khoán phải thanh toán vào ngày cuối cùng của mỗi tháng; trường hợp thuê khoán theo chu kỳ sản xuất, kinh doanh thì phải thanh toán chậm nhất khi kết thúc chu kỳ sản xuất, kinh doanh đó.

Section 1359. Original section/article: 489. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Khai thác tài sản thuê khoán 
Bên thuê khoán phải khai thác tài sản thuê khoán đúng mục đích đã thỏa thuận và báo cho bên thuê khoán theo định kỳ về tình trạng tài sản và tình hình khai thác tài sản; nếu bên cho thuê khoán có yêu cầu hoặc cần báo đột xuất thì bên thuê khoán phải báo kịp thời. Khi bên thuê khoán khai thác công dụng tài sản thuê khoán không đúng mục đích thì bên cho thuê khoán có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1360. Original section/article: 490. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bảo quản, bảo dưỡng, định đoạt tài sản thuê khoán 
1. Trong thời hạn khai thác tài sản thuê khoán, bên thuê khoán phải bảo quản, bảo dưỡng tài sản thuê khoán và trang thiết bị kèm theo bằng chi phí của mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác; nếu bên thuê khoán làm mất, hư hỏng hoặc làm mất giá trị, giảm sút giá trị tài sản thuê khoán thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại. Bên thuê khoán không chịu trách nhiệm về những hao mòn tự nhiên do sử dụng tài sản thuê khoán.
2. Bên thuê khoán có thể tự mình sửa chữa, cải tạo tài sản thuê khoán, nếu có thỏa thuận và phải bảo toàn giá trị tài sản thuê khoán.
Bên cho thuê khoán phải thanh toán cho bên thuê khoán chi phí hợp lý để sửa chữa, cải tạo tài sản thuê khoán theo thỏa thuận.
3. Bên thuê khoán không được cho thuê khoán lại, trừ trường hợp được bên cho thuê khoán đồng ý.

Section 1361. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hưởng hoa lợi, chịu thiệt hại về gia súc thuê khoán 
Trong thời hạn thuê khoán gia súc, bên thuê khoán được hưởng một nửa số gia súc sinh ra và phải chịu một nửa thiệt hại về gia súc thuê khoán do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1362. Original section/article: 492. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng thuê khoán 
1. Trường hợp một bên đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng thì phải báo cho bên kia biết trước một thời gian hợp lý; nếu thuê khoán theo thời vụ hoặc theo chu kỳ khai thác thì thời hạn báo trước phải phù hợp với thời vụ hoặc chu kỳ khai thác.
2. Trường hợp bên thuê khoán vi phạm nghĩa vụ mà việc khai thác đối tượng thuê khoán là nguồn sống duy nhất của bên thuê khoán và việc tiếp tục thuê khoán không làm ảnh hưởng nghiêm trọng đến lợi ích của bên cho thuê khoán thì bên cho thuê khoán không được đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng; bên thuê khoán phải cam kết với bên cho thuê khoán không được tiếp tục vi phạm hợp đồng.

Section 1363. Original section/article: 493. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả lại tài sản thuê khoán 
Khi chấm dứt hợp đồng thuê khoán, bên thuê khoán phải trả lại tài sản thuê khoán ở tình trạng phù hợp với mức độ khấu hao đã thỏa thuận; nếu làm mất giá trị hoặc giảm sút giá trị của tài sản thuê khoán thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
Mục 6. HỢP ĐỒNG MƯỢN TÀI SẢN

Section 1364. Original section/article: 494. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng mượn tài sản 
Hợp đồng mượn tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên cho mượn giao tài sản cho bên mượn để sử dụng trong một thời hạn mà không phải trả tiền, bên mượn phải trả lại tài sản đó khi hết thời hạn mượn hoặc mục đích mượn đã đạt được.

Section 1365. Original section/article: 495. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của hợp đồng mượn tài sản Tất cả những tài sản không tiêu hao đều có thể là đối tượng của hợp đồng mượn tài sản.

Section 1366. Original section/article: 496. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên mượn tài sản 
1. Giữ gìn, bảo quản tài sản mượn, không được tự ý thay đổi tình trạng của tài sản; nếu tài sản bị hư hỏng thông thường thì phải sửa chữa.
2. Không được cho người khác mượn lại, nếu không có sự đồng ý của bên cho mượn.
3. Trả lại tài sản mượn đúng thời hạn; nếu không có thỏa thuận về thời hạn trả lại tài sản thì bên mượn phải trả lại tài sản ngay sau khi mục đích mượn đã đạt được.
4. Bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu làm mất, hư hỏng tài sản mượn.
5. Bên mượn tài sản phải chịu rủi ro đối với tài sản mượn trong thời gian chậm trả.

Section 1367. Original section/article: 497. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên mượn tài sản 1. Được sử dụng tài sản mượn theo đúng công dụng của tài sản và đúng mục đích đã thỏa thuận.
2. Yêu cầu bên cho mượn thanh toán chi phí hợp lý về việc sửa chữa hoặc làm tăng giá trị tài sản mượn, nếu có thỏa thuận.
3. Không phải chịu trách nhiệm về những hao mòn tự nhiên của tài sản mượn.

Section 1368. Original section/article: 498. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên cho mượn tài sản 1. Cung cấp thông tin cần thiết về việc sử dụng tài sản và khuyết tật của tài sản, nếu có.
2. Thanh toán cho bên mượn chi phí sửa chữa, chi phí làm tăng giá trị tài sản, nếu có thỏa thuận.
3. Bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên mượn nếu biết tài sản có khuyết tật mà không báo cho bên mượn biết dẫn đến gây thiệt hại cho bên mượn, trừ những khuyết tật mà bên mượn biết hoặc phải biết.

Section 1369. Original section/article: 499. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên cho mượn tài sản 
1. Đòi lại tài sản ngay sau khi bên mượn đạt được mục đích nếu không có thỏa thuận về thời hạn mượn; nếu bên cho mượn có nhu cầu đột xuất và cấp bách cần sử dụng tài sản cho mượn thì được đòi lại tài sản đó mặc dù bên mượn chưa đạt được mục đích, nhưng phải báo trước một thời gian hợp lý.
2. Đòi lại tài sản khi bên mượn sử dụng không đúng mục đích, công dụng, không đúng cách thức đã thỏa thuận hoặc cho người khác mượn lại mà không có sự đồng ý của bên cho mượn.
3. Yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại đối với tài sản do bên mượn gây ra.
Mục 7. HỢP ĐỒNG VỀ QUYỀN SỬ DỤNG ĐẤT

Section 1370. Original section/article: 500. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất 
Hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó người sử dụng đất chuyển đổi, chuyển nhượng, cho thuê, cho thuê lại, tặng cho, thế chấp, góp vốn quyền sử dụng đất hoặc
thực hiện quyền khác theo quy định của Luật đất đai cho bên kia; bên kia thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ theo hợp đồng với người sử dụng đất.

Section 1371. Original section/article: 501. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung của hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất 
1. Quy định chung về hợp đồng và nội dung của hợp đồng thông dụng có liên quan trong Bộ luật này cũng được áp dụng với hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Nội dung của hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất không được trái với quy định về mục đích sử dụng, thời hạn sử dụng đất, quy hoạch, kế hoạch sử dụng đất và các quyền, nghĩa vụ khác theo quy định của pháp luật về đất đai và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1372. Original section/article: 502. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức, thủ tục thực hiện hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất 
1. Hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất phải được lập thành văn bản theo hình thức phù hợp với quy định của Bộ luật này, pháp luật về đất đai và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.
2. Việc thực hiện hợp đồng về quyền sử dụng đất phải đúng trình tự, thủ tục theo quy định của pháp luật về đất đai và quy định khác của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1373. Original section/article: 503. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của việc chuyển quyền sử dụng đất 
Việc chuyển quyền sử dụng đất có hiệu lực kể từ thời điểm đăng ký theo quy định của Luật đất đai.
Mục 8. HỢP ĐỒNG HỢP TÁC

Section 1374. Original section/article: 504. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng hợp tác 
1. Hợp đồng hợp tác là sự thỏa thuận giữa các cá nhân, pháp nhân về việc cùng đóng góp tài sản, công sức để thực hiện công việc nhất định, cùng hưởng lợi và cùng chịu trách nhiệm.
2. Hợp đồng hợp tác phải được lập thành văn bản.

Section 1375. Original section/article: 505. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung của hợp đồng hợp tác Hợp đồng hợp tác có nội dung chủ yếu sau đây:
1. Mục đích, thời hạn hợp tác;
2. Họ, tên, nơi cư trú của cá nhân; tên, trụ sở của pháp nhân;
3. Tài sản đóng góp, nếu có;
4. Đóng góp bằng sức lao động, nếu có;
5. Phương thức phân chia hoa lợi, lợi tức;
6. Quyền, nghĩa vụ của thành viên hợp tác;
7. Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người đại diện, nếu có;
8. Điều kiện tham gia và rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác của thành viên, nếu có;
9. Điều kiện chấm dứt hợp tác.

Section 1376. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản chung của các thành viên hợp tác 
1. Tài sản do các thành viên đóng góp, cùng tạo lập và tài sản khác theo quy định của pháp luật là tài sản chung theo phần của các thành viên hợp tác.
Trường hợp có thỏa thuận về góp tiền mà thành viên hợp tác chậm thực hiện thì phải có trách nhiệm trả lãi đối với phần tiền chậm trả theo quy định tại

Section 1377. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Việc định đoạt tài sản là quyền sử dụng đất, nhà, xưởng sản xuất, tư liệu sản xuất khác phải có thỏa thuận bằng văn bản của tất cả các thành viên; việc định đoạt tài sản khác do đại diện của các thành viên quyết định, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Không được phân chia tài sản chung trước khi chấm dứt hợp đồng hợp tác, trừ trường hợp tất cả các thành viên hợp tác có thỏa thuận.
Việc phân chia tài sản chung quy định tại khoản này không làm thay đổi hoặc chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ được xác lập, thực hiện trước thời điểm tài sản được phân chia.

Section 1378. Original section/article: 507. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của thành viên hợp tác 1. Được hưởng hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ hoạt động hợp tác.
2. Tham gia quyết định các vấn đề liên quan đến thực hiện hợp đồng hợp tác, giám sát hoạt động hợp tác.
3. Bồi thường thiệt hại cho các thành viên hợp tác khác do lỗi của mình gây ra.
4. Thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ khác theo hợp đồng.

Section 1379. Original section/article: 508. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự 
1. Trường hợp các thành viên hợp tác cử người đại diện thì người này là người đại diện trong xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự.
2. Trường hợp các thành viên hợp tác không cử ra người đại diện thì các thành viên hợp tác phải cùng tham gia xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Giao dịch dân sự do chủ thể quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này xác lập, thực hiện làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ của tất cả thành viên hợp tác.

Section 1380. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm dân sự của thành viên hợp tác 
Các thành viên hợp tác chịu trách nhiệm dân sự chung bằng tài sản chung; nếu tài sản chung không đủ để thực hiện nghĩa vụ chung thì thành viên hợp tác phải chịu trách nhiệm bằng tài sản riêng theo phần tương ứng với phần đóng góp của mình, trừ trường hợp hợp đồng hợp tác hoặc luật có quy định khác.

Section 1381. Original section/article: 510. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác 1. Thành viên có quyền rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo điều kiện đã thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng hợp tác;
b) Có lý do chính đáng và được sự đồng ý của hơn một nửa tổng số thành viên hợp tác.
2. Thành viên rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác có quyền yêu cầu nhận lại tài sản đã đóng góp, được chia phần tài sản trong khối tài sản chung và phải thanh toán các nghĩa vụ theo thỏa thuận. Trường hợp việc phân chia tài sản bằng hiện vật làm ảnh hưởng đến hoạt động hợp tác thì tài sản được tính giá trị thành tiền để chia.
Việc rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác không làm chấm dứt quyền, nghĩa vụ của người này được xác lập, thực hiện trước thời điểm rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác.
3. Việc rút khỏi hợp đồng hợp tác không thuộc trường hợp được quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thành viên rút khỏi hợp đồng được xác định là bên vi phạm hợp đồng và phải thực hiện trách nhiệm dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan.

Section 1382. Original section/article: 511. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Gia nhập hợp đồng hợp tác 
Trường hợp hợp đồng hợp tác không quy định khác thì một cá nhân, pháp nhân trở thành thành viên mới của hợp đồng nếu được sự đồng ý của hơn một nửa tổng số thành viên hợp tác.

Section 1383. Original section/article: 512. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt hợp đồng hợp tác 1. Hợp đồng hợp tác chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo thỏa thuận của các thành viên hợp tác;
b) Hết thời hạn ghi trong hợp đồng hợp tác;
c) Mục đích hợp tác đã đạt được;
d) Theo quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền;
đ) Trường hợp khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan.
2. Khi chấm dứt hợp đồng hợp tác, các khoản nợ phát sinh từ hợp đồng phải được thanh toán; nếu tài sản chung không đủ để trả nợ thì phải lấy tài sản riêng của các thành viên hợp tác để thanh toán theo quy định tại

Section 1384. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp các khoản nợ đã được thanh toán xong mà tài sản chung vẫn còn thì được chia cho các thành viên hợp tác theo tỷ lệ tương ứng với phần đóng góp của mỗi người, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Mục 9. HỢP ĐỒNG DỊCH VỤ

Section 1385. Original section/article: 513. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng dịch vụ 
Hợp đồng dịch vụ là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên cung ứng dịch vụ thực hiện công việc cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ, bên sử dụng dịch vụ phải trả tiền dịch vụ cho bên cung ứng dịch vụ.

Section 1386. Original section/article: 514. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của hợp đồng dịch vụ 
Đối tượng của hợp đồng dịch vụ là công việc có thể thực hiện được, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1387. Original section/article: 515. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên sử dụng dịch vụ 
1. Cung cấp cho bên cung ứng dịch vụ thông tin, tài liệu và các phương tiện cần thiết để thực hiện công việc, nếu có thỏa thuận hoặc việc thực hiện công việc đòi hỏi.
2. Trả tiền dịch vụ cho bên cung ứng dịch vụ theo thỏa thuận.

Section 1388. Original section/article: 516. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên sử dụng dịch vụ 
1. Yêu cầu bên cung ứng dịch vụ thực hiện công việc theo đúng chất lượng, số lượng, thời hạn, địa điểm và thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp bên cung ứng dịch vụ vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ thì bên sử dụng dịch vụ có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1389. Original section/article: 517. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên cung ứng dịch vụ 1. Thực hiện công việc đúng chất lượng, số lượng, thời hạn, địa điểm và thỏa thuận khác.
2. Không được giao cho người khác thực hiện thay công việc nếu không có sự đồng ý của bên sử dụng dịch vụ.
3. Bảo quản và phải giao lại cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ tài liệu và phương tiện được giao sau khi hoàn thành công việc.
4. Báo ngay cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ về việc thông tin, tài liệu không đầy đủ, phương tiện không bảo đảm chất lượng để hoàn thành công việc.
5. Giữ bí mật thông tin mà mình biết được trong thời gian thực hiện công việc, nếu có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.
6. Bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ, nếu làm mất, hư hỏng tài liệu, phương tiện được giao hoặc tiết lộ bí mật thông tin.

Section 1390. Original section/article: 518. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên cung ứng dịch vụ 
1. Yêu cầu bên sử dụng dịch vụ cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu và phương tiện để thực hiện công việc.
2. Được thay đổi điều kiện dịch vụ vì lợi ích của bên sử dụng dịch vụ mà không nhất thiết phải chờ ý kiến của bên sử dụng dịch vụ, nếu việc chờ ý kiến sẽ gây thiệt hại cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ, nhưng phải báo ngay cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ.
3. Yêu cầu bên sử dụng dịch vụ trả tiền dịch vụ.

Section 1391. Original section/article: 519. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả tiền dịch vụ 1. Bên sử dụng dịch vụ phải trả tiền dịch vụ theo thỏa thuận.
2. Khi giao kết hợp đồng, nếu không có thỏa thuận về giá dịch vụ, phương pháp xác định giá dịch vụ và không có bất kỳ chỉ dẫn nào khác về giá dịch vụ thì giá dịch vụ được xác định căn cứ vào giá thị trường của dịch vụ cùng loại tại thời điểm và địa điểm giao kết hợp đồng.
3. Bên sử dụng dịch vụ phải trả tiền dịch vụ tại địa điểm thực hiện công việc khi hoàn thành dịch vụ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp dịch vụ được cung ứng không đạt được như thỏa thuận hoặc công việc không được hoàn thành đúng thời hạn thì bên sử dụng dịch vụ có quyền giảm tiền dịch vụ và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1392. Original section/article: 520. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng dịch vụ 
1. Trường hợp việc tiếp tục thực hiện công việc không có lợi cho bên sử dụng dịch vụ thì bên sử dụng dịch vụ có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng, nhưng phải báo cho bên cung ứng dịch vụ biết trước một thời gian hợp lý; bên sử dụng dịch vụ phải trả tiền công theo phần dịch vụ mà bên cung ứng dịch vụ đã thực hiện và bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Trường hợp bên sử dụng dịch vụ vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ thì bên cung ứng dịch vụ có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1393. Original section/article: 521. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tiếp tục hợp đồng dịch vụ 
Sau khi kết thúc thời hạn thực hiện công việc theo hợp đồng dịch vụ mà công việc chưa hoàn thành và bên cung ứng dịch vụ vẫn tiếp tục thực hiện công việc, bên sử dụng dịch vụ biết nhưng không phản đối thì hợp đồng dịch vụ đương nhiên được tiếp tục thực hiện theo nội dung đã thỏa thuận cho đến khi công việc được hoàn thành.
Mục 10. HỢP ĐỒNG VẬN CHUYỂN 
Tiểu mục 1. HỢP ĐỒNG VẬN CHUYỂN HÀNH KHÁCH

Section 1394. Original section/article: 522. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách 
Hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên vận chuyển chuyên chở hành khách, hành lý đến địa điểm đã định theo thỏa thuận, hành khách phải thanh toán cước phí vận chuyển.

Section 1395. Original section/article: 523. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách 
1. Hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách có thể được lập thành văn bản, bằng lời nói hoặc được xác lập bằng hành vi cụ thể.
2. Vé là bằng chứng của việc giao kết hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách giữa các bên.

Section 1396. Original section/article: 524. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên vận chuyển 
1. Chuyên chở hành khách từ địa điểm xuất phát đến đúng địa điểm, đến đúng giờ, bằng phương tiện đã thỏa thuận một cách an toàn, theo lộ trình; bảo đảm đủ chỗ cho hành khách và không chuyên chở vượt quá trọng tải.
2. Mua bảo hiểm trách nhiệm dân sự đối với hành khách theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Bảo đảm thời gian xuất phát đã được thông báo hoặc theo thỏa thuận.
4. Chuyên chở hành lý và trả lại cho hành khách hoặc người có quyền nhận hành lý tại địa điểm thỏa thuận theo đúng thời gian, lộ trình.
5. Hoàn trả cho hành khách cước phí vận chuyển theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1397. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên vận chuyển 
1. Yêu cầu hành khách trả đủ cước phí vận chuyển hành khách, cước phí vận chuyển hành lý mang theo người vượt quá mức quy định.
2. Từ chối chuyên chở hành khách trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Hành khách không chấp hành quy định của bên vận chuyển hoặc có hành vi làm mất trật tự công cộng, cản trở công việc của bên vận chuyển, đe dọa đến tính mạng, sức khỏe, tài sản của người khác hoặc có hành vi khác không bảo đảm an toàn trong hành trình; trong trường hợp này, hành khách không được trả lại cước phí vận chuyển và phải chịu phạt vi phạm, nếu điều lệ vận chuyển có quy định;
b) Do tình trạng sức khỏe của hành khách mà bên vận chuyển thấy rõ rằng việc vận chuyển sẽ gây nguy hiểm cho chính hành khách đó hoặc người khác trong hành trình;
c) Để ngăn ngừa dịch bệnh lây lan.

Section 1398. Original section/article: 526. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của hành khách 
1. Trả đủ cước phí vận chuyển hành khách, cước phí vận chuyển hành lý vượt quá mức quy định và tự bảo quản hành lý mang theo người.
2. Có mặt tại điểm xuất phát đúng thời gian đã thỏa thuận.
3. Tôn trọng, chấp hành đúng quy định của bên vận chuyển và quy định khác về bảo đảm an toàn giao thông.

Section 1399. Original section/article: 527. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của hành khách 
1. Yêu cầu được chuyên chở đúng bằng phương tiện vận chuyển và giá trị theo cước phí vận chuyển với lộ trình đã thỏa thuận.
2. Được miễn cước phí vận chuyển đối với hành lý ký gửi và hành lý xách tay trong hạn mức theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Yêu cầu thanh toán chi phí phát sinh hoặc bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu bên vận chuyển có lỗi trong việc không chuyên chở đúng thời hạn, địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
4. Nhận lại toàn bộ hoặc một phần cước phí vận chuyển trong trường hợp quy định tại điểm b và điểm c khoản 2

Section 1400. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và trường hợp khác do pháp luật quy định hoặc theo thỏa thuận.
5. Nhận hành lý tại địa điểm đã thỏa thuận theo đúng thời gian, lộ trình.
6. Yêu cầu tạm dừng hành trình trong thời hạn và theo thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.

Section 1401. Original section/article: 528. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại 
1. Trường hợp tính mạng, sức khỏe và hành lý của hành khách bị thiệt hại thì bên vận chuyển phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Bên vận chuyển không phải bồi thường thiệt hại về tính mạng, sức khỏe và hành lý của hành khách nếu thiệt hại xảy ra hoàn toàn do lỗi của hành khách, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Trường hợp hành khách vi phạm điều kiện vận chuyển đã thỏa thuận, quy định của điều lệ vận chuyển mà gây thiệt hại cho bên vận chuyển hoặc người thứ ba thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1402. Original section/article: 529. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng vận chuyển hành khách 
1. Bên vận chuyển có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1403. Original section/article: 525. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Hành khách có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng trong trường hợp bên vận chuyển vi phạm nghĩa vụ quy định tại các khoản 1, 3 và 4

Section 1404. Original section/article: 524. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Tiểu mục 2. HỢP ĐỒNG VẬN CHUYỂN TÀI SẢN

Section 1405. Original section/article: 530. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng vận chuyển tài sản 
Hợp đồng vận chuyển tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên vận chuyển có nghĩa vụ chuyển tài sản đến địa điểm đã định theo thỏa thuận và giao tài sản đó cho người có quyền nhận, bên thuê vận chuyển có nghĩa vụ trả cước phí vận chuyển.

Section 1406. Original section/article: 531. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức hợp đồng vận chuyển tài sản 
1. Hợp đồng vận chuyển tài sản được giao kết bằng văn bản, bằng lời nói hoặc được xác lập bằng hành vi cụ thể.
2. Vận đơn hoặc chứng từ vận chuyển tương đương khác là bằng chứng của việc giao kết hợp đồng giữa các bên.

Section 1407. Original section/article: 532. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao tài sản cho bên vận chuyển 
1. Bên thuê vận chuyển có nghĩa vụ giao tài sản cho bên vận chuyển đúng thời hạn, địa điểm và đóng gói theo đúng quy cách đã thỏa thuận; phải chịu chi phí xếp, dỡ tài sản lên phương tiện vận chuyển, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp bên thuê vận chuyển giao tài sản không đúng thời hạn, địa điểm đã thỏa thuận thì phải thanh toán chi phí chờ đợi và tiền vận chuyển tài sản đến địa điểm đã thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng cho bên vận chuyển.
Trường hợp bên vận chuyển chậm tiếp nhận tài sản tại địa điểm đã thỏa thuận thì phải chịu chi phí phát sinh do việc chậm tiếp nhận.

Section 1408. Original section/article: 533. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Cước phí vận chuyển 
1. Mức cước phí vận chuyển do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu pháp luật có quy định về mức cước phí vận chuyển thì áp dụng mức cước phí đó.
2. Bên thuê vận chuyển phải thanh toán đủ cước phí vận chuyển sau khi tài sản được chuyển lên phương tiện vận chuyển, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1409. Original section/article: 534. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên vận chuyển 1. Bảo đảm vận chuyển tài sản đầy đủ, an toàn đến địa điểm đã định, theo đúng thời hạn.
2. Giao tài sản cho người có quyền nhận.
3. Chịu chi phí liên quan đến việc chuyên chở tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Mua bảo hiểm trách nhiệm dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật.
5. Bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên thuê vận chuyển trong trường hợp bên vận chuyển để mất, hư hỏng tài sản, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.

Section 1410. Original section/article: 535. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên vận chuyển 1. Kiểm tra sự xác thực của tài sản, của vận đơn hoặc chứng từ vận chuyển tương đương khác.
2. Từ chối vận chuyển tài sản không đúng với loại tài sản đã thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng.
3. Yêu cầu bên thuê vận chuyển thanh toán đủ cước phí vận chuyển đúng thời hạn.
4. Từ chối vận chuyển tài sản cấm giao dịch, tài sản có tính chất nguy hiểm, độc hại, nếu bên vận chuyển biết hoặc phải biết.

Section 1411. Original section/article: 536. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên thuê vận chuyển 
1. Trả đủ tiền cước phí vận chuyển cho bên vận chuyển theo đúng thời hạn, phương thức đã thỏa thuận.
2. Cung cấp thông tin cần thiết liên quan đến tài sản vận chuyển để bảo đảm an toàn cho tài sản vận chuyển.
3. Trông coi tài sản trên đường vận chuyển, nếu có thỏa thuận. Trường hợp bên thuê vận chuyển trông coi tài sản mà tài sản bị mất, hư hỏng thì không được bồi thường.

Section 1412. Original section/article: 537. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên thuê vận chuyển 1. Yêu cầu bên vận chuyển chuyên chở tài sản đến đúng địa điểm, thời điểm đã thỏa thuận.
2. Trực tiếp hoặc chỉ định người thứ ba nhận lại tài sản đã thuê vận chuyển.

Section 1413. Original section/article: 538. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao tài sản cho bên nhận tài sản 
1. Bên nhận tài sản có thể là bên thuê vận chuyển tài sản hoặc là người thứ ba được bên thuê vận chuyển chỉ định nhận tài sản.
2. Bên vận chuyển phải giao tài sản đầy đủ, đúng thời hạn và địa điểm cho bên nhận tài sản theo thỏa thuận.
3. Trường hợp tài sản đã được chuyển đến địa điểm giao tài sản đúng thời hạn nhưng không có bên nhận tài sản thì bên vận chuyển có thể gửi số tài sản đó tại nơi nhận gửi giữ và phải báo ngay cho bên thuê vận chuyển hoặc người thứ ba được bên thuê vận chuyển chỉ định nhận tài sản. Bên thuê vận chuyển hoặc người thứ ba được bên thuê vận chuyển chỉ định nhận tài sản phải chịu chi phí hợp lý phát sinh từ việc gửi giữ tài sản.
Nghĩa vụ giao tài sản hoàn thành khi tài sản đã được gửi giữ và bên thuê vận chuyển hoặc người thứ ba được bên thuê vận chuyển chỉ định nhận tài sản đã được thông báo về việc gửi giữ.

Section 1414. Original section/article: 539. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên nhận tài sản 
1. Xuất trình cho bên vận chuyển vận đơn hoặc chứng từ vận chuyển tương đương khác và nhận tài sản đúng thời hạn, địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
2. Chịu chi phí xếp, dỡ tài sản vận chuyển, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
3. Thanh toán chi phí hợp lý phát sinh do việc chậm tiếp nhận tài sản.
4. Trường hợp bên nhận tài sản là người thứ ba được bên thuê vận chuyển chỉ định thì phải thông báo cho bên thuê vận chuyển về việc nhận tài sản và thông tin cần thiết khác theo yêu cầu của bên thuê vận chuyển.

Section 1415. Original section/article: 540. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên nhận tài sản 1. Kiểm tra số lượng, chất lượng tài sản được vận chuyển đến.
2. Nhận tài sản được vận chuyển đến.
3. Yêu cầu bên vận chuyển thanh toán chi phí hợp lý phát sinh do phải chờ nhận tài sản nếu bên vận chuyển chậm giao.
4. Yêu cầu bên vận chuyển bồi thường thiệt hại do tài sản bị mất, hư hỏng.

Section 1416. Original section/article: 541. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại 
1. Bên vận chuyển phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên thuê vận chuyển nếu để tài sản bị mất hoặc hư hỏng, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1417. Original section/article: 536. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Bên thuê vận chuyển phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên vận chuyển và người thứ ba về thiệt hại do tài sản vận chuyển có tính chất nguy hiểm, độc hại mà không có biện pháp đóng gói, bảo đảm an toàn trong quá trình vận chuyển.
3. Trường hợp bất khả kháng dẫn đến tài sản vận chuyển bị mất, hư hỏng hoặc bị hủy hoại trong quá trình vận chuyển thì bên vận chuyển không phải chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
Mục 11. HỢP ĐỒNG GIA CÔNG

Section 1418. Original section/article: 542. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng gia công 
Hợp đồng gia công là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên nhận gia công thực hiện công việc để tạo ra sản phẩm theo yêu cầu của bên đặt gia công, bên đặt gia công nhận sản phẩm và trả tiền công.

Section 1419. Original section/article: 543. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng của hợp đồng gia công 
Đối tượng của hợp đồng gia công là vật được xác định trước theo mẫu, theo tiêu chuẩn mà các bên thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1420. Original section/article: 544. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên đặt gia công 
1. Cung cấp nguyên vật liệu theo đúng số lượng, chất lượng, thời hạn và địa điểm đã thỏa thuận cho bên nhận gia công; cung cấp giấy tờ cần thiết liên quan đến việc gia công.
2. Chỉ dẫn cho bên nhận gia công thực hiện hợp đồng.
3. Trả tiền công theo đúng thỏa thuận.

Section 1421. Original section/article: 545. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên đặt gia công 
1. Nhận sản phẩm gia công theo đúng số lượng, chất lượng, phương thức, thời hạn và địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
2. Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại khi bên nhận gia công vi phạm nghiêm trọng hợp đồng.
3. Trường hợp sản phẩm không bảo đảm chất lượng mà bên đặt gia công đồng ý nhận sản phẩm và yêu cầu sửa chữa nhưng bên nhận gia công không thể sửa chữa được trong thời hạn thỏa thuận thì bên đặt gia công có quyền hủy bỏ hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1422. Original section/article: 546. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên nhận gia công 1. Bảo quản nguyên vật liệu do bên đặt gia công cung cấp.
2. Báo cho bên đặt gia công biết để đổi nguyên vật liệu khác, nếu nguyên vật liệu không bảo đảm chất lượng; từ chối thực hiện gia công, nếu biết hoặc phải biết việc sử dụng nguyên vật liệu có thể tạo ra sản phẩm nguy hại cho xã hội.
3. Giao sản phẩm cho bên đặt gia công đúng số lượng, chất lượng, phương thức, thời hạn và địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
4. Giữ bí mật thông tin về quy trình gia công và sản phẩm tạo ra.
5. Chịu trách nhiệm về chất lượng sản phẩm, trừ trường hợp sản phẩm không bảo đảm chất lượng do nguyên vật liệu mà bên đặt gia công cung cấp hoặc do sự chỉ dẫn không hợp lý của bên đặt gia công.
6. Hoàn trả nguyên vật liệu còn lại cho bên đặt gia công sau khi hoàn thành hợp đồng.

Section 1423. Original section/article: 547. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên nhận gia công 
1. Yêu cầu bên đặt gia công giao nguyên vật liệu đúng chất lượng, số lượng, thời hạn và địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.
2. Từ chối sự chỉ dẫn không hợp lý của bên đặt gia công trong quá trình thực hiện hợp đồng, nếu thấy chỉ dẫn đó có thể làm giảm chất lượng sản phẩm, nhưng phải báo ngay cho bên đặt gia công.
3. Yêu cầu bên đặt gia công trả đủ tiền công theo đúng thời hạn và phương thức đã thỏa thuận.

Section 1424. Original section/article: 548. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm chịu rủi ro 
Cho đến khi giao sản phẩm cho bên đặt gia công, bên nào là chủ sở hữu của nguyên vật liệu thì phải chịu rủi ro đối với nguyên vật liệu hoặc sản phẩm được tạo ra từ nguyên vật liệu đó, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Khi bên đặt gia công chậm nhận sản phẩm thì phải chịu rủi ro trong thời gian chậm nhận, kể cả trong trường hợp sản phẩm được tạo ra từ nguyên vật liệu của bên nhận gia công, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Khi bên nhận gia công chậm giao sản phẩm mà có rủi ro đối với sản phẩm gia công thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại xảy ra cho bên đặt gia công.

Section 1425. Original section/article: 549. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giao, nhận sản phẩm gia công 
Bên nhận gia công phải giao sản phẩm và bên đặt gia công phải nhận sản phẩm theo đúng thời hạn và tại địa điểm đã thỏa thuận.

Section 1426. Original section/article: 550. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chậm giao, chậm nhận sản phẩm gia công 
1. Trường hợp bên nhận gia công chậm giao sản phẩm thì bên đặt gia công có thể gia hạn; nếu hết thời hạn đó mà bên nhận gia công vẫn chưa hoàn thành công việc thì bên đặt gia công có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng và yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Trường hợp bên đặt gia công chậm nhận sản phẩm thì bên nhận gia công có thể gửi sản phẩm đó tại nơi nhận gửi giữ và phải báo ngay cho bên đặt gia công. Nghĩa vụ giao sản phẩm hoàn thành khi đáp ứng được các điều kiện đã thỏa thuận và bên đặt gia công đã được thông báo. Bên đặt gia công phải chịu mọi chi phí phát sinh từ việc gửi giữ.

Section 1427. Original section/article: 551. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng gia công 
1. Mỗi bên đều có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng gia công, nếu việc tiếp tục thực hiện hợp đồng không mang lại lợi ích cho mình, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác, nhưng phải báo cho bên kia biết trước một thời gian hợp lý.
2. Bên đặt gia công đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng thì phải trả tiền công tương ứng với công việc đã làm, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác. Bên nhận gia công đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng thì không được trả tiền công, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Bên đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng mà gây thiệt hại cho bên kia thì phải bồi thường.

Section 1428. Original section/article: 552. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả tiền công 
1. Bên đặt gia công phải trả đủ tiền công vào thời điểm nhận sản phẩm, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận về mức tiền công thì áp dụng mức tiền công trung bình đối với việc tạo ra sản phẩm cùng loại tại địa điểm gia công và vào thời điểm trả tiền.
3. Bên đặt gia công không có quyền giảm tiền công, nếu sản phẩm không bảo đảm chất lượng do nguyên vật liệu mà mình đã cung cấp hoặc do sự chỉ dẫn không hợp lý của mình.

Section 1429. Original section/article: 553. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thanh lý nguyên vật liệu 
Khi hợp đồng gia công chấm dứt, bên nhận gia công phải hoàn trả nguyên vật liệu còn lại cho bên đặt gia công, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Mục 12. HỢP ĐỒNG GỬI GIỮ TÀI SẢN

Section 1430. Original section/article: 554. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng gửi giữ tài sản 
Hợp đồng gửi giữ tài sản là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên giữ nhận tài sản của bên gửi để bảo quản và trả lại chính tài sản đó cho bên gửi khi hết thời hạn hợp đồng, bên gửi phải trả tiền công cho bên giữ, trừ trường hợp gửi giữ không phải trả tiền công.

Section 1431. Original section/article: 555. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên gửi tài sản 
1. Khi giao tài sản phải báo ngay cho bên giữ biết tình trạng tài sản và biện pháp bảo quản thích hợp đối với tài sản gửi giữ; nếu không báo mà tài sản gửi giữ bị tiêu hủy hoặc hư hỏng do không được bảo quản thích hợp thì bên gửi phải tự chịu; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường.
2. Phải trả đủ tiền công, đúng thời hạn và đúng phương thức đã thỏa thuận.

Section 1432. Original section/article: 556. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên gửi tài sản 
1. Yêu cầu lấy lại tài sản bất cứ lúc nào, nếu hợp đồng gửi giữ không xác định thời hạn, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên giữ một thời gian hợp lý.
2. Yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu bên giữ làm mất, hư hỏng tài sản gửi giữ, trừ trường hợp bất khả kháng.

Section 1433. Original section/article: 557. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên giữ tài sản 
1. Bảo quản tài sản theo đúng thỏa thuận, trả lại tài sản cho bên gửi theo đúng tình trạng như khi nhận giữ.
2. Chỉ được thay đổi cách bảo quản tài sản nếu việc thay đổi là cần thiết nhằm bảo quản tốt hơn tài sản đó, nhưng phải báo ngay cho bên gửi biết về việc thay đổi.
3. Thông báo kịp thời cho bên gửi biết về nguy cơ hư hỏng, tiêu hủy tài sản do tính chất của tài sản đó và yêu cầu bên gửi cho biết cách giải quyết trong một thời hạn; nếu hết thời hạn đó mà bên gửi không trả lời thì bên giữ có quyền thực hiện các biện pháp cần thiết để bảo quản và yêu cầu bên gửi thanh toán chi phí.
4. Phải bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu làm mất, hư hỏng tài sản gửi giữ, trừ trường hợp bất khả kháng.

Section 1434. Original section/article: 558. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên giữ tài sản 1. Yêu cầu bên gửi trả tiền công theo thỏa thuận.
2. Yêu cầu bên gửi trả chi phí hợp lý để bảo quản tài sản trong trường hợp gửi không trả tiền công.
3. Yêu cầu bên gửi nhận lại tài sản bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên gửi một thời gian hợp lý trong trường hợp gửi giữ không xác định thời hạn.
4. Bán tài sản gửi giữ có nguy cơ bị hư hỏng hoặc tiêu hủy nhằm bảo đảm lợi ích cho bên gửi, báo việc đó cho bên gửi và trả cho bên gửi khoản tiền thu được do bán tài sản, sau khi trừ chi phí hợp lý để bán tài sản.

Section 1435. Original section/article: 559. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả lại tài sản gửi giữ 
1. Bên giữ phải trả lại chính tài sản đã nhận và cả hoa lợi nếu có, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Địa điểm trả tài sản gửi giữ là nơi gửi; nếu bên gửi yêu cầu trả tài sản ở địa điểm khác thì phải chịu chi phí vận chuyển đến nơi đó, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Bên giữ phải trả lại tài sản đúng thời hạn và chỉ có quyền yêu cầu bên gửi lấy lại tài sản trước thời hạn, nếu có lý do chính đáng.

Section 1436. Original section/article: 560. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chậm giao, chậm nhận tài sản gửi giữ 
Trường hợp bên giữ chậm giao tài sản thì không được yêu cầu bên gửi trả tiền công và thanh toán các chi phí về bảo quản, kể từ thời điểm chậm giao và phải chịu rủi ro đối với tài sản trong thời gian chậm giao tài sản.
Trường hợp bên gửi chậm nhận tài sản thì phải thanh toán các chi phí về bảo quản và tiền công cho bên nhận giữ tài sản trong thời gian chậm nhận.

Section 1437. Original section/article: 561. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả tiền công 1. Bên gửi phải trả đủ tiền công khi lấy lại tài sản gửi giữ, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp các bên không thỏa thuận về mức tiền công thì áp dụng mức tiền công trung bình tại địa điểm và thời điểm trả tiền công.
3. Khi bên gửi lấy lại tài sản trước thời hạn thì vẫn phải trả đủ tiền công và thanh toán chi phí cần thiết phát sinh từ việc bên giữ phải trả lại tài sản trước thời hạn, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Khi bên giữ yêu cầu bên gửi lấy lại tài sản trước thời hạn thì bên giữ không được nhận tiền công và phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên gửi, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Mục 13. HỢP ĐỒNG ỦY QUYỀN

Section 1438. Original section/article: 562. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng ủy quyền 
Hợp đồng ủy quyền là sự thỏa thuận giữa các bên, theo đó bên được ủy quyền có nghĩa vụ thực hiện công việc nhân danh bên ủy quyền, bên ủy quyền chỉ phải trả thù lao nếu có thỏa thuận hoặc pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1439. Original section/article: 563. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn ủy quyền 
Thời hạn ủy quyền do các bên thỏa thuận hoặc do pháp luật quy định; nếu không có thỏa thuận và pháp luật không có quy định thì hợp đồng ủy quyền có hiệu lực 01 năm, kể từ ngày xác lập việc ủy quyền.

Section 1440. Original section/article: 564. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Ủy quyền lại 1. Bên được ủy quyền được ủy quyền lại cho người khác trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Có sự đồng ý của bên ủy quyền;
b) Do sự kiện bất khả kháng nếu không áp dụng ủy quyền lại thì mục đích xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự vì lợi ích của người ủy quyền không thể thực hiện được.
2. Việc ủy quyền lại không được vượt quá phạm vi ủy quyền ban đầu.
3. Hình thức hợp đồng ủy quyền lại phải phù hợp với hình thức ủy quyền ban đầu.

Section 1441. Original section/article: 565. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên được ủy quyền 1. Thực hiện công việc theo ủy quyền và báo cho bên ủy quyền về việc thực hiện công việc đó.
2. Báo cho người thứ ba trong quan hệ thực hiện ủy quyền về thời hạn, phạm vi ủy quyền và việc sửa đổi, bổ sung phạm vi ủy quyền.
3. Bảo quản, giữ gìn tài liệu và phương tiện được giao để thực hiện việc ủy quyền.
4. Giữ bí mật thông tin mà mình biết được trong khi thực hiện việc ủy quyền.
5. Giao lại cho bên ủy quyền tài sản đã nhận và những lợi ích thu được trong khi thực hiện việc ủy quyền theo thỏa thuận hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
6. Bồi thường thiệt hại do vi phạm nghĩa vụ quy định tại Điều này.

Section 1442. Original section/article: 566. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên được ủy quyền 
1. Yêu cầu bên ủy quyền cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu và phương tiện cần thiết để thực hiện công việc ủy quyền.
2. Được thanh toán chi phí hợp lý mà mình đã bỏ ra để thực hiện công việc ủy quyền; hưởng thù lao, nếu có thỏa thuận.

Section 1443. Original section/article: 567. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của bên ủy quyền 
1. Cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu và phương tiện cần thiết để bên được ủy quyền thực hiện công việc.
2. Chịu trách nhiệm về cam kết do bên được ủy quyền thực hiện trong phạm vi ủy quyền.
3. Thanh toán chi phí hợp lý mà bên được ủy quyền đã bỏ ra để thực hiện công việc được ủy quyền; trả thù lao cho bên được ủy quyền, nếu có thỏa thuận về việc trả thù lao.

Section 1444. Original section/article: 568. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của bên ủy quyền 1. Yêu cầu bên được ủy quyền thông báo đầy đủ về việc thực hiện công việc ủy quyền.
2. Yêu cầu bên được ủy quyền giao lại tài sản, lợi ích thu được từ việc thực hiện công việc ủy quyền, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Được bồi thường thiệt hại, nếu bên được ủy quyền vi phạm nghĩa vụ quy định tại

Section 1445. Original section/article: 569. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng ủy quyền 
1. Trường hợp ủy quyền có thù lao, bên ủy quyền có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải trả thù lao cho bên được ủy quyền tương ứng với công việc mà
bên được ủy quyền đã thực hiện và bồi thường thiệt hại; nếu ủy quyền không có thù lao thì bên ủy quyền có thể chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên được ủy quyền một thời gian hợp lý.
Bên ủy quyền phải báo bằng văn bản cho người thứ ba biết về việc bên ủy quyền chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng; nếu không báo thì hợp đồng với người thứ ba vẫn có hiệu lực, trừ trường hợp người thứ ba biết hoặc phải biết về việc hợp đồng ủy quyền đã bị chấm dứt.
2. Trường hợp ủy quyền không có thù lao, bên được ủy quyền có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng bất cứ lúc nào, nhưng phải báo trước cho bên ủy quyền biết một thời gian hợp lý; nếu ủy quyền có thù lao thì bên được ủy quyền có quyền đơn phương chấm dứt thực hiện hợp đồng bất cứ lúc nào và phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho bên ủy quyền, nếu có.
Chương XVII 
HỨA THƯỞNG, THI CÓ GIẢI

Section 1446. Original section/article: 570. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hứa thưởng 
1. Người đã công khai hứa thưởng phải trả thưởng cho người đã thực hiện công việc theo yêu cầu của người hứa thưởng.
2. Công việc được hứa thưởng phải cụ thể, có thể thực hiện được, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1447. Original section/article: 571. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Rút lại tuyên bố hứa thưởng 
Khi chưa đến hạn bắt đầu thực hiện công việc thì người hứa thưởng có quyền rút lại tuyên bố hứa thưởng của mình. Việc rút lại tuyên bố hứa thưởng phải được thực hiện theo cách thức và trên phương tiện mà việc hứa thưởng đã được công bố.

Section 1448. Original section/article: 572. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trả thưởng 
1. Trường hợp một công việc được hứa thưởng do một người thực hiện thì khi công việc hoàn thành, người thực hiện công việc đó được nhận thưởng.
2. Khi một công việc được hứa thưởng do nhiều người cùng thực hiện nhưng mỗi người thực hiện độc lập với nhau thì người hoàn thành đầu tiên được nhận thưởng.
3. Trường hợp nhiều người cùng hoàn thành công việc được hứa thưởng vào cùng một thời điểm thì phần thưởng được chia đều cho những người đó.
4. Trường hợp nhiều người cùng cộng tác để thực hiện công việc được hứa thưởng do người hứa thưởng yêu cầu thì mỗi người được nhận một phần của phần thưởng tương ứng với phần đóng góp của mình.

Section 1449. Original section/article: 573. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thi có giải 
1. Việc tổ chức các cuộc thi văn hóa, nghệ thuật, thể thao, khoa học, kỹ thuật và các cuộc thi khác không được vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.
2. Người tổ chức các cuộc thi phải công bố điều kiện dự thi, thang điểm, các giải thưởng và mức thưởng của mỗi giải.
Việc thay đổi điều kiện dự thi phải được thực hiện theo cách thức đã công bố trong một thời gian hợp lý trước khi diễn ra cuộc thi.
3. Người đoạt giải có quyền yêu cầu người tổ chức thi trao giải thưởng đúng mức đã công bố.
Chương XVIII 
THỰC HIỆN CÔNG VIỆC KHÔNG CÓ ỦY QUYỀN

Section 1450. Original section/article: 574. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền 
Thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền là việc một người không có nghĩa vụ thực hiện công việc nhưng đã tự nguyện thực hiện công việc đó vì lợi ích của người có công việc được thực hiện khi người này không biết hoặc biết mà không phản đối.

Section 1451. Original section/article: 575. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền 
1. Người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền có nghĩa vụ thực hiện công việc phù hợp với khả năng, điều kiện của mình.
2. Người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền phải thực hiện công việc như công việc của chính mình; nếu biết hoặc đoán biết được ý định của người có công việc thì phải thực hiện công việc phù hợp với ý định đó.
3. Người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền phải báo cho người có công việc được thực hiện về quá trình, kết quả thực hiện công việc nếu có yêu cầu, trừ trường hợp người có công việc đã biết hoặc người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền không biết nơi cư trú hoặc trụ sở của người đó.
4. Trường hợp người có công việc được thực hiện chết, nếu là cá nhân hoặc chấm dứt tồn tại, nếu là pháp nhân thì người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền phải tiếp tục thực hiện công việc cho đến khi người thừa kế hoặc người đại diện của người có công việc được thực hiện đã tiếp nhận.
5. Trường hợp có lý do chính đáng mà người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền không thể tiếp tục đảm nhận công việc thì phải báo cho người có công việc được thực hiện, người đại diện hoặc người thân thích của người này hoặc có thể nhờ người khác thay mình đảm nhận việc thực hiện công việc.

Section 1452. Original section/article: 576. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ thanh toán của người có công việc được thực hiện 
1. Người có công việc được thực hiện phải tiếp nhận công việc khi người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền bàn giao công việc và thanh toán các chi phí hợp lý mà người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền đã bỏ ra để thực hiện công việc, kể cả trường hợp công việc không đạt được kết quả theo ý muốn của mình.
2. Người có công việc được thực hiện phải trả cho người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền một khoản thù lao khi người này thực hiện công việc chu đáo, có lợi cho mình, trừ trường hợp người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền từ chối.

Section 1453. Original section/article: 577. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại 
1. Khi người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền cố ý gây thiệt hại trong khi thực hiện công việc thì phải bồi thường thiệt hại cho người có công việc được thực hiện.
2. Nếu người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền do vô ý mà gây thiệt hại trong khi thực hiện công việc thì căn cứ vào hoàn cảnh đảm nhận công việc, người đó có thể được giảm mức bồi thường.

Section 1454. Original section/article: 578. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền Việc thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền chấm dứt trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Theo yêu cầu của người có công việc được thực hiện.
2. Người có công việc được thực hiện, người thừa kế hoặc người đại diện của người có công việc được thực hiện tiếp nhận công việc.
3. Người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền không thể tiếp tục thực hiện công việc theo quy định tại khoản 5

Section 1455. Original section/article: 575. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Người thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền chết, nếu là cá nhân hoặc chấm dứt tồn tại, nếu là pháp nhân.
Chương XIX 
NGHĨA VỤ HOÀN TRẢ DO CHIẾM HỮU, SỬ DỤNG TÀI SẢN, ĐƯỢC LỢI VỀ TÀI SẢN KHÔNG CÓ CĂN CỨ PHÁP LUẬT

Section 1456. Original section/article: 579. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ hoàn trả 
1. Người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản của người khác mà không có căn cứ pháp luật thì phải hoàn trả cho chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản đó; nếu không tìm được chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản thì phải giao cho cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1457. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Người được lợi về tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật làm cho người khác bị thiệt hại thì phải hoàn trả khoản lợi đó cho người bị thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1458. Original section/article: 580. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản hoàn trả 
1. Người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật phải hoàn trả toàn bộ tài sản đã thu được.
2. Trường hợp tài sản hoàn trả là vật đặc định thì phải hoàn trả đúng vật đó; nếu vật đặc định đó bị mất hoặc hư hỏng thì phải đền bù bằng tiền, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Trường hợp tài sản hoàn trả là vật cùng loại, nhưng bị mất hoặc hư hỏng thì phải trả vật cùng loại hoặc đền bù bằng tiền, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Người được lợi về tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật phải hoàn trả khoản lợi về tài sản đó cho người bị thiệt hại bằng hiện vật hoặc bằng tiền.

Section 1459. Original section/article: 581. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ hoàn trả hoa lợi, lợi tức 
1. Người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản, người được lợi về tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật và không ngay tình thì phải hoàn trả hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ thời điểm chiếm hữu, sử dụng tài sản, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật.
2. Người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản, người được lợi về tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật nhưng ngay tình thì phải hoàn trả hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ thời điểm người đó biết hoặc phải biết việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng tài sản, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1460. Original section/article: 582. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu người thứ ba hoàn trả 
Trường hợp người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật đã giao tài sản cho người thứ ba thì khi bị chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản yêu cầu hoàn trả, người thứ ba có nghĩa vụ hoàn trả tài sản đó, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này có quy định khác; nếu tài sản đó đã được trả bằng tiền hoặc có đền bù thì người thứ ba có quyền yêu cầu người đã giao tài sản cho mình bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1461. Original section/article: 583. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ thanh toán 
Chủ sở hữu, chủ thể có quyền khác đối với tài sản, người bị thiệt hại được hoàn trả tài sản thì phải thanh toán chi phí cần thiết mà người chiếm hữu, người sử dụng tài sản, người được lợi về tài sản mà không có căn cứ pháp luật nhưng ngay tình đã bỏ ra để bảo quản, làm tăng giá trị của tài sản.
Chương XX 
TRÁCH NHIỆM BỒI THƯỜNG THIỆT HẠI NGOÀI HỢP ĐỒNG 
Mục 1. QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 1462. Original section/article: 584. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ phát sinh trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại 
1. Người nào có hành vi xâm phạm tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín, tài sản, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp khác của người khác mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này, luật khác có liên quan quy định khác.
2. Người gây thiệt hại không phải chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại trong trường hợp thiệt hại phát sinh là do sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc hoàn toàn do lỗi của bên bị thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác hoặc luật có quy định khác.
3. Trường hợp tài sản gây thiệt hại thì chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu tài sản phải chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại, trừ trường hợp thiệt hại phát sinh theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.

Section 1463. Original section/article: 585. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc bồi thường thiệt hại 
1. Thiệt hại thực tế phải được bồi thường toàn bộ và kịp thời. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận về mức bồi thường, hình thức bồi thường bằng tiền, bằng hiện vật hoặc thực hiện một công việc, phương thức bồi thường một lần hoặc nhiều lần, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại có thể được giảm mức bồi thường nếu không có lỗi hoặc có lỗi vô ý và thiệt hại quá lớn so với khả năng kinh tế của mình.
3. Khi mức bồi thường không còn phù hợp với thực tế thì bên bị thiệt hại hoặc bên gây thiệt hại có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền khác thay đổi mức bồi thường.
4. Khi bên bị thiệt hại có lỗi trong việc gây thiệt hại thì không được bồi thường phần thiệt hại do lỗi của mình gây ra.
5. Bên có quyền, lợi ích bị xâm phạm không được bồi thường nếu thiệt hại xảy ra do không áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết, hợp lý để ngăn chặn, hạn chế thiệt hại cho chính mình.

Section 1464. Original section/article: 586. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại của cá nhân 1. Người từ đủ mười tám tuổi trở lên gây thiệt hại thì phải tự bồi thường.
2. Người chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi gây thiệt hại mà còn cha, mẹ thì cha, mẹ phải bồi thường toàn bộ thiệt hại; nếu tài sản của cha, mẹ không đủ để bồi thường mà con chưa thành niên gây thiệt
hại có tài sản riêng thì lấy tài sản đó để bồi thường phần còn thiếu, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1465. Original section/article: 599. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường bằng tài sản của mình; nếu không đủ tài sản để bồi thường thì cha, mẹ phải bồi thường phần còn thiếu bằng tài sản của mình.
3. Người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi gây thiệt hại mà có người giám hộ thì người giám hộ đó được dùng tài sản của người được giám hộ để bồi thường; nếu người được giám hộ không có tài sản hoặc không đủ tài sản để bồi thường thì người giám hộ phải bồi thường bằng tài sản của mình; nếu người giám hộ chứng minh được mình không có lỗi trong việc giám hộ thì không phải lấy tài sản của mình để bồi thường.

Section 1466. Original section/article: 587. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do nhiều người cùng gây ra 
Trường hợp nhiều người cùng gây thiệt hại thì những người đó phải liên đới bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại. Trách nhiệm bồi thường của từng người cùng gây thiệt hại được xác định tương ứng với mức độ lỗi của mỗi người; nếu không xác định được mức độ lỗi thì họ phải bồi thường thiệt hại theo phần bằng nhau.

Section 1467. Original section/article: 588. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu khởi kiện yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại 
Thời hiệu khởi kiện yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại là 03 năm, kể từ ngày người có quyền yêu cầu biết hoặc phải biết quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của mình bị xâm phạm.
Mục 2. XÁC ĐỊNH THIỆT HẠI

Section 1468. Original section/article: 589. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại do tài sản bị xâm phạm Thiệt hại do tài sản bị xâm phạm bao gồm:
1. Tài sản bị mất, bị hủy hoại hoặc bị hư hỏng.
2. Lợi ích gắn liền với việc sử dụng, khai thác tài sản bị mất, bị giảm sút.
3. Chi phí hợp lý để ngăn chặn, hạn chế và khắc phục thiệt hại.
4. Thiệt hại khác do luật quy định.

Section 1469. Original section/article: 590. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại do sức khỏe bị xâm phạm 1. Thiệt hại do sức khỏe bị xâm phạm bao gồm:
a) Chi phí hợp lý cho việc cứu chữa, bồi dưỡng, phục hồi sức khỏe và chức năng bị mất, bị giảm sút của người bị thiệt hại;
b) Thu nhập thực tế bị mất hoặc bị giảm sút của người bị thiệt hại; nếu thu nhập thực tế của người bị thiệt hại không ổn định và không thể xác định được thì áp dụng mức thu nhập trung bình của lao động cùng loại;
c) Chi phí hợp lý và phần thu nhập thực tế bị mất của người chăm sóc người bị thiệt hại trong thời gian điều trị; nếu người bị thiệt hại mất khả năng lao động và cần phải có người thường xuyên chăm sóc thì thiệt hại bao gồm cả chi phí hợp lý cho việc chăm sóc người bị thiệt hại;
d) Thiệt hại khác do luật quy định.
2. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường trong trường hợp sức khỏe của người khác bị xâm phạm phải bồi thường thiệt hại theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này và một khoản tiền khác để bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần mà người đó gánh chịu. Mức bồi thường bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì mức tối đa cho một người có sức khỏe bị xâm phạm không quá năm mươi lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định.

Section 1470. Original section/article: 591. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại do tính mạng bị xâm phạm 1. Thiệt hại do tính mạng bị xâm phạm bao gồm:
a) Thiệt hại do sức khỏe bị xâm phạm theo quy định tại

Section 1471. Original section/article: 590. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Chi phí hợp lý cho việc mai táng;
c) Tiền cấp dưỡng cho những người mà người bị thiệt hại có nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng;
d) Thiệt hại khác do luật quy định.
2. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường trong trường hợp tính mạng của người khác bị xâm phạm phải bồi thường thiệt hại theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này và một khoản tiền khác để bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần cho những người thân thích thuộc hàng thừa kế thứ nhất của người bị thiệt hại, nếu không có những người này thì người mà người bị thiệt hại đã trực tiếp nuôi dưỡng, người đã trực tiếp nuôi dưỡng người bị thiệt hại được hưởng khoản tiền này. Mức bồi thường bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì mức tối đa cho một người có tính mạng bị xâm phạm không quá một trăm lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định.

Section 1472. Original section/article: 592. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thiệt hại do danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín bị xâm phạm 1. Thiệt hại do danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín bị xâm phạm bao gồm:
a) Chi phí hợp lý để hạn chế, khắc phục thiệt hại;
b) Thu nhập thực tế bị mất hoặc bị giảm sút;
c) Thiệt hại khác do luật quy định.
2. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường trong trường hợp danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín của người khác bị xâm phạm phải bồi thường thiệt hại theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này và một khoản tiền khác để bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần mà người đó gánh chịu. Mức bồi thường bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì mức tối đa cho một người có danh dự, nhân phẩm, uy tín bị xâm phạm không quá mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định.

Section 1473. Original section/article: 593. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn hưởng bồi thường thiệt hại do tính mạng, sức khỏe bị xâm phạm 
1. Trường hợp người bị thiệt hại mất hoàn toàn khả năng lao động thì người bị thiệt hại được hưởng bồi thường từ thời điểm mất hoàn toàn khả năng lao động cho đến khi chết, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp người bị thiệt hại chết thì những người mà người này có nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng khi còn sống được hưởng tiền cấp dưỡng từ thời điểm người có tính mạng bị xâm phạm chết trong thời hạn sau đây:
a) Người chưa thành niên hoặc người đã thành thai là con của người chết và còn sống sau khi sinh ra được hưởng tiền cấp dưỡng cho đến khi đủ mười tám tuổi, trừ trường hợp người từ đủ
mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi đã tham gia lao động và có thu nhập đủ nuôi sống bản thân;
b) Người thành niên nhưng không có khả năng lao động được hưởng tiền cấp dưỡng cho đến khi chết.
3. Đối với con đã thành thai của người chết, tiền cấp dưỡng được tính từ thời điểm người này sinh ra và còn sống.
Mục 3. BỒI THƯỜNG THIỆT HẠI TRONG MỘT SỐ TRƯỜNG HỢP CỤ THỂ

Section 1474. Original section/article: 594. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại trong trường hợp vượt quá giới hạn phòng vệ chính đáng 
Người gây thiệt hại trong trường hợp phòng vệ chính đáng không phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại.
Người gây thiệt hại do vượt quá giới hạn phòng vệ chính đáng phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại.

Section 1475. Original section/article: 595. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại trong trường hợp vượt quá yêu cầu của tình thế cấp thiết 
1. Trường hợp thiệt hại xảy ra do vượt quá yêu cầu của tình thế cấp thiết thì người gây thiệt hại phải bồi thường phần thiệt hại xảy ra do vượt quá yêu cầu của tình thế cấp thiết cho người bị thiệt hại.
2. Người đã gây ra tình thế cấp thiết dẫn đến thiệt hại xảy ra thì phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại.

Section 1476. Original section/article: 596. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do người dùng chất kích thích gây ra 
1. Người do uống rượu hoặc do dùng chất kích thích khác mà lâm vào tình trạng mất khả năng nhận thức và làm chủ hành vi, gây thiệt hại cho người khác thì phải bồi thường.
2. Khi một người cố ý dùng rượu hoặc chất kích thích khác làm cho người khác lâm vào tình trạng mất khả năng nhận thức và làm chủ hành vi mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại.

Section 1477. Original section/article: 597. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do người của pháp nhân gây ra 
Pháp nhân phải bồi thường thiệt hại do người của mình gây ra trong khi thực hiện nhiệm vụ được pháp nhân giao; nếu pháp nhân đã bồi thường thiệt hại thì có quyền yêu cầu người có lỗi trong việc gây thiệt hại phải hoàn trả một khoản tiền theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1478. Original section/article: 598. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do người thi hành công vụ gây ra 
Nhà nước có trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại do hành vi trái pháp luật của người thi hành công vụ gây ra theo quy định của Luật trách nhiệm bồi thường của Nhà nước.

Section 1479. Original section/article: 599. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do người dưới mười lăm tuổi, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự gây ra trong thời gian trường học, bệnh viện, pháp nhân khác trực tiếp quản lý 
1. Người chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi trong thời gian trường học trực tiếp quản lý mà gây thiệt hại thì trường học phải bồi thường thiệt hại xảy ra.
2. Người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự gây thiệt hại cho người khác trong thời gian bệnh viện, pháp nhân khác trực tiếp quản lý thì bệnh viện, pháp nhân khác phải bồi thường thiệt hại xảy ra.
3. Trường học, bệnh viện, pháp nhân khác quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này không phải bồi thường nếu chứng minh được mình không có lỗi trong quản lý; trong trường hợp này, cha, mẹ, người giám hộ của người dưới mười lăm tuổi, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự phải bồi thường.

Section 1480. Original section/article: 600. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do người làm công, người học nghề gây ra 
Cá nhân, pháp nhân phải bồi thường thiệt hại do người làm công, người học nghề gây ra trong khi thực hiện công việc được giao và có quyền yêu cầu người làm công, người học nghề có lỗi trong việc gây thiệt hại phải hoàn trả một khoản tiền theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1481. Original section/article: 601. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ gây ra 
1. Nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ bao gồm phương tiện giao thông vận tải cơ giới, hệ thống tải điện, nhà máy công nghiệp đang hoạt động, vũ khí, chất nổ, chất cháy, chất độc, chất phóng xạ, thú dữ và các nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ khác do pháp luật quy định.
Chủ sở hữu nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ phải vận hành, sử dụng, bảo quản, trông giữ, vận chuyển nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ theo đúng quy định của pháp luật.
2. Chủ sở hữu nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ phải bồi thường thiệt hại do nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ gây ra; nếu chủ sở hữu đã giao cho người khác chiếm hữu, sử dụng thì người này phải bồi thường, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
3. Chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu, sử dụng nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ phải bồi thường thiệt hại cả khi không có lỗi, trừ trường hợp sau đây:
a) Thiệt hại xảy ra hoàn toàn do lỗi cố ý của người bị thiệt hại;
b) Thiệt hại xảy ra trong trường hợp bất khả kháng hoặc tình thế cấp thiết, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
4. Trường hợp nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ bị chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật thì người đang chiếm hữu, sử dụng nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ trái pháp luật phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
Khi chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu, sử dụng nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ có lỗi trong việc để nguồn nguy hiểm cao độ bị chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật thì phải liên đới bồi thường thiệt hại.

Section 1482. Original section/article: 602. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do làm ô nhiễm môi trường 
Chủ thể làm ô nhiễm môi trường mà gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật, kể cả trường hợp chủ thể đó không có lỗi.

Section 1483. Original section/article: 603. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do súc vật gây ra 
1. Chủ sở hữu súc vật phải bồi thường thiệt hại do súc vật gây ra cho người khác. Người chiếm hữu, sử dụng súc vật phải bồi thường thiệt hại trong thời gian chiếm hữu, sử dụng súc vật, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp người thứ ba hoàn toàn có lỗi làm cho súc vật gây thiệt hại cho người khác thì người thứ ba phải bồi thường thiệt hại; nếu người thứ ba và chủ sở hữu cùng có lỗi thì phải liên đới bồi thường thiệt hại.
3. Trường hợp súc vật bị chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật gây thiệt hại thì người chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật phải bồi thường; khi chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu, sử dụng súc vật có lỗi trong việc để súc vật bị chiếm hữu, sử dụng trái pháp luật thì phải liên đới bồi thường thiệt hại.
4. Trường hợp súc vật thả rông theo tập quán mà gây thiệt hại thì chủ sở hữu súc vật đó phải bồi thường theo tập quán nhưng không được trái pháp luật, đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1484. Original section/article: 604. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do cây cối gây ra 
Chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu, người được giao quản lý phải bồi thường thiệt hại do cây cối gây ra.

Section 1485. Original section/article: 605. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do nhà cửa, công trình xây dựng khác gây ra 
Chủ sở hữu, người chiếm hữu, người được giao quản lý, sử dụng nhà cửa, công trình xây dựng khác phải bồi thường thiệt hại do nhà cửa, công trình xây dựng khác đó gây thiệt hại cho người khác.
Khi người thi công có lỗi trong việc để nhà cửa, công trình xây dựng khác gây thiệt hại thì phải liên đới bồi thường.

Section 1486. Original section/article: 606. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do xâm phạm thi thể 1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân xâm phạm thi thể phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Thiệt hại do xâm phạm thi thể gồm chi phí hợp lý để hạn chế, khắc phục thiệt hại.
3. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường khi thi thể bị xâm phạm phải bồi thường theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này và một khoản tiền khác để bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần cho những người thân thích thuộc hàng thừa kế thứ nhất của người chết, nếu không có những người này thì người trực tiếp nuôi dưỡng người chết được hưởng khoản tiền này. Mức bồi thường bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì mức tối đa đối với mỗi thi thể bị xâm phạm không quá ba mươi lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định.

Section 1487. Original section/article: 607. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do xâm phạm mồ mả 1. Cá nhân, pháp nhân xâm phạm đến mồ mả của người khác phải bồi thường thiệt hại.
2. Thiệt hại do xâm phạm mồ mả gồm chi phí hợp lý để hạn chế, khắc phục thiệt hại.
3. Người chịu trách nhiệm bồi thường trong trường hợp mồ mả của người khác bị xâm phạm phải bồi thường theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này và một khoản tiền khác để bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần cho những người thân thích theo thứ tự hàng thừa kế của người chết; nếu không có những người này thì người trực tiếp nuôi dưỡng người chết được hưởng khoản tiền này. Mức bồi thường bù đắp tổn thất về tinh thần do các bên thỏa thuận; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì mức tối đa đối với mỗi mồ mả bị xâm phạm không quá mười lần mức lương cơ sở do Nhà nước quy định.

Section 1488. Original section/article: 608. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại do vi phạm quyền lợi của người tiêu dùng 
Cá nhân, pháp nhân sản xuất, kinh doanh hàng hóa, dịch vụ không bảo đảm chất lượng hàng hóa, dịch vụ mà gây thiệt hại cho người tiêu dùng thì phải bồi thường.
Phần thứ tư 
THỪA KẾ 
Chương XXI 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 1489. Original section/article: 609. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền thừa kế 
Cá nhân có quyền lập di chúc để định đoạt tài sản của mình; để lại tài sản của mình cho người thừa kế theo pháp luật; hưởng di sản theo di chúc hoặc theo pháp luật.
Người thừa kế không là cá nhân có quyền hưởng di sản theo di chúc.

Section 1490. Original section/article: 610. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền bình đẳng về thừa kế của cá nhân 
Mọi cá nhân đều bình đẳng về quyền để lại tài sản của mình cho người khác và quyền hưởng di sản theo di chúc hoặc theo pháp luật.

Section 1491. Original section/article: 611. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm, địa điểm mở thừa kế 
1. Thời điểm mở thừa kế là thời điểm người có tài sản chết. Trường hợp Tòa án tuyên bố một người là đã chết thì thời điểm mở thừa kế là ngày được xác định tại khoản 2

Section 1492. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Địa điểm mở thừa kế là nơi cư trú cuối cùng của người để lại di sản; nếu không xác định được nơi cư trú cuối cùng thì địa điểm mở thừa kế là nơi có toàn bộ di sản hoặc nơi có phần lớn di sản.

Section 1493. Original section/article: 612. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di sản 
Di sản bao gồm tài sản riêng của người chết, phần tài sản của người chết trong tài sản chung với người khác.

Section 1494. Original section/article: 613. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người thừa kế 
Người thừa kế là cá nhân phải là người còn sống vào thời điểm mở thừa kế hoặc sinh ra và còn sống sau thời điểm mở thừa kế nhưng đã thành thai trước khi người để lại di sản chết. Trường hợp người thừa kế theo di chúc không là cá nhân thì phải tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế.

Section 1495. Original section/article: 614. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời điểm phát sinh quyền và nghĩa vụ của người thừa kế 
Kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế, những người thừa kế có các quyền, nghĩa vụ tài sản do người chết để lại.

Section 1496. Original section/article: 615. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản do người chết để lại 
1. Những người hưởng thừa kế có trách nhiệm thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản trong phạm vi di sản do người chết để lại, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp di sản chưa được chia thì nghĩa vụ tài sản do người chết để lại được người quản lý di sản thực hiện theo thỏa thuận của những người thừa kế trong phạm vi di sản do người chết để lại.
3. Trường hợp di sản đã được chia thì mỗi người thừa kế thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản do người chết để lại tương ứng nhưng không vượt quá phần tài sản mà mình đã nhận, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp người thừa kế không phải là cá nhân hưởng di sản theo di chúc thì cũng phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản do người chết để lại như người thừa kế là cá nhân.

Section 1497. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người quản lý di sản 
1. Người quản lý di sản là người được chỉ định trong di chúc hoặc do những người thừa kế thỏa thuận cử ra.
2. Trường hợp di chúc không chỉ định người quản lý di sản và những người thừa kế chưa cử được người quản lý di sản thì người đang chiếm hữu, sử dụng, quản lý di sản tiếp tục quản lý di sản đó cho đến khi những người thừa kế cử được người quản lý di sản.
3. Trường hợp chưa xác định được người thừa kế và di sản chưa có người quản lý theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì di sản do cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền quản lý.

Section 1498. Original section/article: 617. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ của người quản lý di sản 
1. Người quản lý di sản quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 3

Section 1499. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Lập danh mục di sản; thu hồi tài sản thuộc di sản của người chết mà người khác đang chiếm hữu, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác;
b) Bảo quản di sản; không được bán, trao đổi, tặng cho, cầm cố, thế chấp hoặc định đoạt tài sản bằng hình thức khác, nếu không được những người thừa kế đồng ý bằng văn bản;
c) Thông báo về tình trạng di sản cho những người thừa kế;
d) Bồi thường thiệt hại nếu vi phạm nghĩa vụ của mình mà gây thiệt hại;
đ) Giao lại di sản theo yêu cầu của người thừa kế.
2. Người đang chiếm hữu, sử dụng, quản lý di sản quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1500. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Bảo quản di sản; không được bán, trao đổi, tặng cho, cầm cố, thế chấp hoặc định đoạt tài sản bằng hình thức khác;
b) Thông báo về di sản cho những người thừa kế;
c) Bồi thường thiệt hại nếu vi phạm nghĩa vụ của mình mà gây thiệt hại;
d) Giao lại di sản theo thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng với người để lại di sản hoặc theo yêu cầu của người thừa kế.

Section 1501. Original section/article: 618. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của người quản lý di sản 
1. Người quản lý di sản quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 3

Section 1502. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có quyền sau đây:
a) Đại diện cho những người thừa kế trong quan hệ với người thứ ba liên quan đến di sản thừa kế;
b) Được hưởng thù lao theo thỏa thuận với những người thừa kế;
c) Được thanh toán chi phí bảo quản di sản.
2. Người đang chiếm hữu, sử dụng, quản lý di sản quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1503. Original section/article: 616. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có quyền sau đây:
a) Được tiếp tục sử dụng di sản theo thỏa thuận trong hợp đồng với người để lại di sản hoặc được sự đồng ý của những người thừa kế;
b) Được hưởng thù lao theo thỏa thuận với những người thừa kế;
c) Được thanh toán chi phí bảo quản di sản.
3. Trường hợp không đạt được thỏa thuận với những người thừa kế về mức thù lao thì người quản lý di sản được hưởng một khoản thù lao hợp lý.

Section 1504. Original section/article: 619. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Việc thừa kế của những người có quyền thừa kế di sản của nhau mà chết cùng thời điểm 
Trường hợp những người có quyền thừa kế di sản của nhau đều chết cùng thời điểm hoặc được coi là chết cùng thời điểm do không thể xác định được người nào chết trước (sau đây gọi chung là chết cùng thời điểm) thì họ không được thừa kế di sản của nhau và di sản của mỗi người do người thừa kế của người đó hưởng, trừ trường hợp thừa kế thế vị theo quy định tại

Section 1505. Original section/article: 620. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Từ chối nhận di sản 
1. Người thừa kế có quyền từ chối nhận di sản, trừ trường hợp việc từ chối nhằm trốn tránh việc thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản của mình đối với người khác.
2. Việc từ chối nhận di sản phải được lập thành văn bản và gửi đến người quản lý di sản, những người thừa kế khác, người được giao nhiệm vụ phân chia di sản để biết.
3. Việc từ chối nhận di sản phải được thể hiện trước thời điểm phân chia di sản.

Section 1506. Original section/article: 621. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người không được quyền hưởng di sản 1. Những người sau đây không được quyền hưởng di sản:
a) Người bị kết án về hành vi cố ý xâm phạm tính mạng, sức khỏe hoặc về hành vi ngược đãi nghiêm trọng, hành hạ người để lại di sản, xâm phạm nghiêm trọng danh dự, nhân phẩm của người đó;
b) Người vi phạm nghiêm trọng nghĩa vụ nuôi dưỡng người để lại di sản;
c) Người bị kết án về hành vi cố ý xâm phạm tính mạng người thừa kế khác nhằm hưởng một phần hoặc toàn bộ phần di sản mà người thừa kế đó có quyền hưởng;
d) Người có hành vi lừa dối, cưỡng ép hoặc ngăn cản người để lại di sản trong việc lập di chúc; giả mạo di chúc, sửa chữa di chúc, hủy di chúc, che giấu di chúc nhằm hưởng một phần hoặc toàn bộ di sản trái với ý chí của người để lại di sản.
2. Những người quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này vẫn được hưởng di sản, nếu người để lại di sản đã biết hành vi của những người đó, nhưng vẫn cho họ hưởng di sản theo di chúc.

Section 1507. Original section/article: 622. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Tài sản không có người nhận thừa kế 
Trường hợp không có người thừa kế theo di chúc, theo pháp luật hoặc có nhưng không được quyền hưởng di sản, từ chối nhận di sản thì tài sản còn lại sau khi đã thực hiện nghĩa vụ về tài sản mà không có người nhận thừa kế thuộc về Nhà nước.

Section 1508. Original section/article: 623. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu thừa kế 
1. Thời hiệu để người thừa kế yêu cầu chia di sản là 30 năm đối với bất động sản, 10 năm đối với động sản, kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế. Hết thời hạn này thì di sản thuộc về người thừa kế đang quản lý di sản đó. Trường hợp không có người thừa kế đang quản lý di sản thì di sản được giải quyết như sau:
a) Di sản thuộc quyền sở hữu của người đang chiếm hữu theo quy định tại

Section 1509. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Di sản thuộc về Nhà nước, nếu không có người chiếm hữu quy định tại điểm a khoản này.
2. Thời hiệu để người thừa kế yêu cầu xác nhận quyền thừa kế của mình hoặc bác bỏ quyền thừa kế của người khác là 10 năm, kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế.
3. Thời hiệu yêu cầu người thừa kế thực hiện nghĩa vụ về tài sản của người chết để lại là 03 năm, kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế.
Chương XXII 
THỪA KẾ THEO DI CHÚC

Section 1510. Original section/article: 624. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc 
Di chúc là sự thể hiện ý chí của cá nhân nhằm chuyển tài sản của mình cho người khác sau khi chết.

Section 1511. Original section/article: 625. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người lập di chúc 
1. Người thành niên có đủ điều kiện theo quy định tại điểm a khoản 1

Section 1512. Original section/article: 630. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có quyền lập di chúc để định đoạt tài sản của mình.
2. Người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi được lập di chúc, nếu được cha, mẹ hoặc người giám hộ đồng ý về việc lập di chúc.

Section 1513. Original section/article: 626. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền của người lập di chúc Người lập di chúc có quyền sau đây:
1. Chỉ định người thừa kế; truất quyền hưởng di sản của người thừa kế.
2. Phân định phần di sản cho từng người thừa kế.
3. Dành một phần tài sản trong khối di sản để di tặng, thờ cúng.
4. Giao nghĩa vụ cho người thừa kế.
5. Chỉ định người giữ di chúc, người quản lý di sản, người phân chia di sản.

Section 1514. Original section/article: 627. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hình thức của di chúc 
Di chúc phải được lập thành văn bản; nếu không thể lập được di chúc bằng văn bản thì có thể di chúc miệng.

Section 1515. Original section/article: 628. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc bằng văn bản Di chúc bằng văn bản bao gồm:
1. Di chúc bằng văn bản không có người làm chứng.
2. Di chúc bằng văn bản có người làm chứng.
3. Di chúc bằng văn bản có công chứng.
4. Di chúc bằng văn bản có chứng thực.

Section 1516. Original section/article: 629. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc miệng 
1. Trường hợp tính mạng một người bị cái chết đe dọa và không thể lập di chúc bằng văn bản thì có thể lập di chúc miệng.
2. Sau 03 tháng, kể từ thời điểm di chúc miệng mà người lập di chúc còn sống, minh mẫn, sáng suốt thì di chúc miệng mặc nhiên bị hủy bỏ.

Section 1517. Original section/article: 630. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc hợp pháp 1. Di chúc hợp pháp phải có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Người lập di chúc minh mẫn, sáng suốt trong khi lập di chúc; không bị lừa dối, đe doạ, cưỡng ép;
b) Nội dung của di chúc không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội; hình thức di chúc không trái quy định của luật.
2. Di chúc của người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi phải được lập thành văn bản và phải được cha, mẹ hoặc người giám hộ đồng ý về việc lập di chúc.
3. Di chúc của người bị hạn chế về thể chất hoặc của người không biết chữ phải được người làm chứng lập thành văn bản và có công chứng hoặc chứng thực.
4. Di chúc bằng văn bản không có công chứng, chứng thực chỉ được coi là hợp pháp, nếu có đủ các điều kiện được quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.
5. Di chúc miệng được coi là hợp pháp nếu người di chúc miệng thể hiện ý chí cuối cùng của mình trước mặt ít nhất hai người làm chứng và ngay sau khi người di chúc miệng thể hiện ý chí cuối cùng, người làm chứng ghi chép lại, cùng ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày người di chúc miệng thể hiện ý chí cuối cùng thì di chúc phải được công chứng viên hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền chứng thực xác nhận chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người làm chứng.

Section 1518. Original section/article: 631. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nội dung của di chúc 1. Di chúc gồm các nội dung chủ yếu sau:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm lập di chúc;
b) Họ, tên và nơi cư trú của người lập di chúc;
c) Họ, tên người, cơ quan, tổ chức được hưởng di sản;
d) Di sản để lại và nơi có di sản.
2. Ngoài các nội dung quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, di chúc có thể có các nội dung khác.
3. Di chúc không được viết tắt hoặc viết bằng ký hiệu, nếu di chúc gồm nhiều trang thì mỗi trang phải được ghi số thứ tự và có chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người lập di chúc.
Trường hợp di chúc có sự tẩy xóa, sửa chữa thì người tự viết di chúc hoặc người làm chứng di chúc phải ký tên bên cạnh chỗ tẩy xóa, sửa chữa.

Section 1519. Original section/article: 632. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người làm chứng cho việc lập di chúc Mọi người đều có thể làm chứng cho việc lập di chúc, trừ những người sau đây:
1. Người thừa kế theo di chúc hoặc theo pháp luật của người lập di chúc.
2. Người có quyền, nghĩa vụ tài sản liên quan tới nội dung di chúc.
3. Người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.

Section 1520. Original section/article: 633. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc bằng văn bản không có người làm chứng Người lập di chúc phải tự viết và ký vào bản di chúc.
Việc lập di chúc bằng văn bản không có người làm chứng phải tuân theo quy định tại

Section 1521. Original section/article: 634. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc bằng văn bản có người làm chứng 
Trường hợp người lập di chúc không tự mình viết bản di chúc thì có thể tự mình đánh máy hoặc nhờ người khác viết hoặc đánh máy bản di chúc, nhưng phải có ít nhất là hai người làm chứng. Người lập di chúc phải ký hoặc điểm chỉ vào bản di chúc trước mặt những người làm chứng; những người làm chứng xác nhận chữ ký, điểm chỉ của người lập di chúc và ký vào bản di chúc.
Việc lập di chúc bằng văn bản có người làm chứng phải tuân theo quy định tại

Section 1522. Original section/article: 635. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc có công chứng hoặc chứng thực Người lập di chúc có thể yêu cầu công chứng hoặc chứng thực bản di chúc.

Section 1523. Original section/article: 636. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục lập di chúc tại tổ chức hành nghề công chứng hoặc Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã 
Việc lập di chúc tại tổ chức hành nghề công chứng hoặc Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã phải tuân theo thủ tục sau đây:
1. Người lập di chúc tuyên bố nội dung của di chúc trước công chứng viên hoặc người có thẩm quyền chứng thực của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã. Công chứng viên hoặc người có thẩm quyền chứng thực của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã phải ghi chép lại nội dung mà người lập di chúc đã tuyên bố. Người lập di chúc ký hoặc điểm chỉ vào bản di chúc sau khi xác nhận bản di chúc đã được ghi chép chính xác và thể hiện đúng ý chí của mình. Công chứng viên hoặc người có thẩm quyền chứng thực của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã ký vào bản di chúc.
2. Trường hợp người lập di chúc không đọc được hoặc không nghe được bản di chúc, không ký hoặc không điểm chỉ được thì phải nhờ người làm chứng và người này phải ký xác nhận trước mặt công chứng viên hoặc người có thẩm quyền chứng thực của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã. Công chứng viên hoặc người có thẩm quyền chứng thực của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã chứng nhận bản di chúc trước mặt người lập di chúc và người làm chứng.

Section 1524. Original section/article: 637. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người không được công chứng, chứng thực di chúc 
Công chứng viên, người có thẩm quyền của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã không được công chứng, chứng thực đối với di chúc nếu thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Người thừa kế theo di chúc hoặc theo pháp luật của người lập di chúc.
2. Người có cha, mẹ, vợ hoặc chồng, con là người thừa kế theo di chúc hoặc theo pháp luật.
3. Người có quyền, nghĩa vụ về tài sản liên quan tới nội dung di chúc.

Section 1525. Original section/article: 638. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc bằng văn bản có giá trị như di chúc được công chứng hoặc chứng thực 
1. Di chúc của quân nhân tại ngũ có xác nhận của thủ trưởng đơn vị từ cấp đại đội trở lên, nếu quân nhân không thể yêu cầu công chứng hoặc chứng thực.
2. Di chúc của người đang đi trên tàu biển, máy bay có xác nhận của người chỉ huy phương tiện đó.
3. Di chúc của người đang điều trị tại bệnh viện, cơ sở chữa bệnh, điều dưỡng khác có xác nhận của người phụ trách bệnh viện, cơ sở đó.
4. Di chúc của người đang làm công việc khảo sát, thăm dò, nghiên cứu ở vùng rừng núi, hải đảo có xác nhận của người phụ trách đơn vị.
5. Di chúc của công dân Việt Nam đang ở nước ngoài có chứng nhận của cơ quan lãnh sự, đại diện ngoại giao Việt Nam ở nước đó.
6. Di chúc của người đang bị tạm giam, tạm giữ, đang chấp hành hình phạt tù, người đang chấp hành biện pháp xử lý hành chính tại cơ sở giáo dục, cơ sở chữa bệnh có xác nhận của người phụ trách cơ sở đó.

Section 1526. Original section/article: 639. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc do công chứng viên lập tại chỗ ở 1. Người lập di chúc có thể yêu cầu công chứng viên tới chỗ ở của mình để lập di chúc.
2. Thủ tục lập di chúc tại chỗ ở được tiến hành như thủ tục lập di chúc tại tổ chức hành nghề công chứng theo quy định tại

Section 1527. Original section/article: 640. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Sửa đổi, bổ sung, thay thế, hủy bỏ di chúc 1. Người lập di chúc có thể sửa đổi, bổ sung, thay thế, hủy bỏ di chúc đã lập vào bất cứ lúc nào.
2. Trường hợp người lập di chúc bổ sung di chúc thì di chúc đã lập và phần bổ sung có hiệu lực pháp luật như nhau; nếu một phần của di chúc đã lập và phần bổ sung mâu thuẫn nhau thì chỉ phần bổ sung có hiệu lực pháp luật.
3. Trường hợp người lập di chúc thay thế di chúc bằng di chúc mới thì di chúc trước bị hủy bỏ.

Section 1528. Original section/article: 641. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Gửi giữ di chúc 
1. Người lập di chúc có thể yêu cầu tổ chức hành nghề công chứng lưu giữ hoặc gửi người khác giữ bản di chúc.
2. Trường hợp tổ chức hành nghề công chứng lưu giữ bản di chúc thì phải bảo quản, giữ gìn theo quy định của Bộ luật này và pháp luật về công chứng.
3. Người giữ bản di chúc có nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Giữ bí mật nội dung di chúc;
b) Giữ gìn, bảo quản bản di chúc; nếu bản di chúc bị thất lạc, hư hại thì phải báo ngay cho người lập di chúc;
c) Giao lại bản di chúc cho người thừa kế hoặc người có thẩm quyền công bố di chúc, khi người lập di chúc chết. Việc giao lại bản di chúc phải được lập thành văn bản, có chữ ký của người giao, người nhận và trước sự có mặt của ít nhất hai người làm chứng.

Section 1529. Original section/article: 642. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc bị thất lạc, hư hại 
1. Kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế, nếu bản di chúc bị thất lạc hoặc bị hư hại đến mức không thể hiện được đầy đủ ý chí của người lập di chúc và cũng không có bằng chứng nào chứng minh được ý nguyện đích thực của người lập di chúc thì coi như không có di chúc và áp dụng các quy định về thừa kế theo pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp di sản chưa chia mà tìm thấy di chúc thì di sản được chia theo di chúc.
3. Trong thời hiệu yêu cầu chia di sản, trường hợp di sản đã chia mà tìm thấy di chúc thì phải chia lại theo di chúc nếu người thừa kế theo di chúc yêu cầu.

Section 1530. Original section/article: 643. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của di chúc 1. Di chúc có hiệu lực từ thời điểm mở thừa kế.
2. Di chúc không có hiệu lực toàn bộ hoặc một phần trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người thừa kế theo di chúc chết trước hoặc chết cùng thời điểm với người lập di chúc;
b) Cơ quan, tổ chức được chỉ định là người thừa kế không còn tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế.
Trường hợp có nhiều người thừa kế theo di chúc mà có người chết trước hoặc chết cùng thời điểm với người lập di chúc, một trong nhiều cơ quan, tổ chức được chỉ định hưởng thừa kế theo di chúc không còn tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế thì chỉ phần di chúc có liên quan đến cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức này không có hiệu lực.
3. Di chúc không có hiệu lực, nếu di sản để lại cho người thừa kế không còn vào thời điểm mở thừa kế; nếu di sản để lại cho người thừa kế chỉ còn một phần thì phần di chúc về phần di sản còn lại vẫn có hiệu lực.
4. Khi di chúc có phần không hợp pháp mà không ảnh hưởng đến hiệu lực của các phần còn lại thì chỉ phần đó không có hiệu lực.
5. Khi một người để lại nhiều bản di chúc đối với một tài sản thì chỉ bản di chúc sau cùng có hiệu lực.

Section 1531. Original section/article: 644. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người thừa kế không phụ thuộc vào nội dung của di chúc 
1. Những người sau đây vẫn được hưởng phần di sản bằng hai phần ba suất của một người thừa kế theo pháp luật nếu di sản được chia theo pháp luật, trong trường hợp họ không được người lập di chúc cho hưởng di sản hoặc chỉ cho hưởng phần di sản ít hơn hai phần ba suất đó:
a) Con chưa thành niên, cha, mẹ, vợ, chồng;
b) Con thành niên mà không có khả năng lao động.
2. Quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này không áp dụng đối với người từ chối nhận di sản theo quy định tại

Section 1532. Original section/article: 620. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
hoặc họ là những người không có quyền hưởng di sản theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1533. Original section/article: 645. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di sản dùng vào việc thờ cúng 
1. Trường hợp người lập di chúc để lại một phần di sản dùng vào việc thờ cúng thì phần di sản đó không được chia thừa kế và được giao cho người đã được chỉ định trong di chúc quản lý để thực hiện việc thờ cúng; nếu người được chỉ định không thực hiện đúng di chúc hoặc không theo thỏa thuận của những người thừa kế thì những người thừa kế có quyền giao phần di sản dùng vào việc thờ cúng cho người khác quản lý để thờ cúng.
Trường hợp người để lại di sản không chỉ định người quản lý di sản thờ cúng thì những người thừa kế cử người quản lý di sản thờ cúng.
Trường hợp tất cả những người thừa kế theo di chúc đều đã chết thì phần di sản dùng để thờ cúng thuộc về người đang quản lý hợp pháp di sản đó trong số những người thuộc diện thừa kế theo pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp toàn bộ di sản của người chết không đủ để thanh toán nghĩa vụ tài sản của người đó thì không được dành một phần di sản dùng vào việc thờ cúng.

Section 1534. Original section/article: 646. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di tặng 
1. Di tặng là việc người lập di chúc dành một phần di sản để tặng cho người khác. Việc di tặng phải được ghi rõ trong di chúc.
2. Người được di tặng là cá nhân phải còn sống vào thời điểm mở thừa kế hoặc sinh ra và còn sống sau thời điểm mở thừa kế nhưng đã thành thai trước khi người để lại di sản chết. Trường hợp người được di tặng không phải là cá nhân thì phải tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế.
3. Người được di tặng không phải thực hiện nghĩa vụ tài sản đối với phần được di tặng, trừ trường hợp toàn bộ di sản không đủ để thanh toán nghĩa vụ tài sản của người lập di chúc thì phần di tặng cũng được dùng để thực hiện phần nghĩa vụ còn lại của người này.

Section 1535. Original section/article: 647. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Công bố di chúc 
1. Trường hợp di chúc bằng văn bản được lưu giữ tại tổ chức hành nghề công chứng thì công chứng viên là người công bố di chúc.
2. Trường hợp người để lại di chúc chỉ định người công bố di chúc thì người này có nghĩa vụ công bố di chúc; nếu người để lại di chúc không chỉ định hoặc có chỉ định nhưng người được chỉ định từ chối công bố di chúc thì những người thừa kế còn lại thỏa thuận cử người công bố di chúc.
3. Sau thời điểm mở thừa kế, người công bố di chúc phải sao gửi di chúc tới tất cả những người có liên quan đến nội dung di chúc.
4. Người nhận được bản sao di chúc có quyền yêu cầu đối chiếu với bản gốc của di chúc.
5. Trường hợp di chúc được lập bằng tiếng nước ngoài thì bản di chúc đó phải được dịch ra tiếng Việt và phải có công chứng hoặc chứng thực.

Section 1536. Original section/article: 648. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giải thích nội dung di chúc 
Trường hợp nội dung di chúc không rõ ràng dẫn đến nhiều cách hiểu khác nhau thì những người thừa kế theo di chúc phải cùng nhau giải thích nội dung di chúc dựa trên ý nguyện đích thực trước đây của người chết, có xem xét đến mối quan hệ của người chết với người thừa kế theo di chúc. Khi những người này không nhất trí về cách hiểu nội dung di chúc thì có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết.
Trường hợp có một phần nội dung di chúc không giải thích được nhưng không ảnh hưởng đến các phần còn lại của di chúc thì chỉ phần không giải thích được không có hiệu lực.
Chương XXIII 
THỪA KẾ THEO PHÁP LUẬT

Section 1537. Original section/article: 649. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thừa kế theo pháp luật 
Thừa kế theo pháp luật là thừa kế theo hàng thừa kế, điều kiện và trình tự thừa kế do pháp luật quy định.

Section 1538. Original section/article: 650. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Những trường hợp thừa kế theo pháp luật 1. Thừa kế theo pháp luật được áp dụng trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Không có di chúc;
b) Di chúc không hợp pháp;
c) Những người thừa kế theo di chúc chết trước hoặc chết cùng thời điểm với người lập di chúc; cơ quan, tổ chức được hưởng thừa kế theo di chúc không còn tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế;
d) Những người được chỉ định làm người thừa kế theo di chúc mà không có quyền hưởng di sản hoặc từ chối nhận di sản.
2. Thừa kế theo pháp luật cũng được áp dụng đối với các phần di sản sau đây:
a) Phần di sản không được định đoạt trong di chúc;
b) Phần di sản có liên quan đến phần của di chúc không có hiệu lực pháp luật;
c) Phần di sản có liên quan đến người được thừa kế theo di chúc nhưng họ không có quyền hưởng di sản, từ chối nhận di sản, chết trước hoặc chết cùng thời điểm với người lập di chúc; liên quan đến cơ quan, tổ chức được hưởng di sản theo di chúc, nhưng không còn tồn tại vào thời điểm mở thừa kế.

Section 1539. Original section/article: 651. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người thừa kế theo pháp luật 1. Những người thừa kế theo pháp luật được quy định theo thứ tự sau đây:
a) Hàng thừa kế thứ nhất gồm: vợ, chồng, cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ, cha nuôi, mẹ nuôi, con đẻ, con nuôi của người chết;
b) Hàng thừa kế thứ hai gồm: ông nội, bà nội, ông ngoại, bà ngoại, anh ruột, chị ruột, em ruột của người chết; cháu ruột của người chết mà người chết là ông nội, bà nội, ông ngoại, bà ngoại;
c) Hàng thừa kế thứ ba gồm: cụ nội, cụ ngoại của người chết; bác ruột, chú ruột, cậu ruột, cô ruột, dì ruột của người chết; cháu ruột của người chết mà người chết là bác ruột, chú ruột, cậu ruột, cô ruột, dì ruột; chắt ruột của người chết mà người chết là cụ nội, cụ ngoại.
2. Những người thừa kế cùng hàng được hưởng phần di sản bằng nhau.
3. Những người ở hàng thừa kế sau chỉ được hưởng thừa kế, nếu không còn ai ở hàng thừa kế trước do đã chết, không có quyền hưởng di sản, bị truất quyền hưởng di sản hoặc từ chối nhận di sản.

Section 1540. Original section/article: 652. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thừa kế thế vị 
Trường hợp con của người để lại di sản chết trước hoặc cùng một thời điểm với người để lại di sản thì cháu được hưởng phần di sản mà cha hoặc mẹ của cháu được hưởng nếu còn sống; nếu cháu cũng chết trước hoặc cùng một thời điểm với người để lại di sản thì chắt được hưởng phần di sản mà cha hoặc mẹ của chắt được hưởng nếu còn sống.

Section 1541. Original section/article: 653. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quan hệ thừa kế giữa con nuôi và cha nuôi, mẹ nuôi và cha đẻ, mẹ đẻ 
Con nuôi và cha nuôi, mẹ nuôi được thừa kế di sản của nhau và còn được thừa kế di sản theo quy định tại

Section 1542. Original section/article: 654. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quan hệ thừa kế giữa con riêng và bố dượng, mẹ kế 
Con riêng và bố dượng, mẹ kế nếu có quan hệ chăm sóc, nuôi dưỡng nhau như cha con, mẹ con thì được thừa kế di sản của nhau và còn được thừa kế di sản theo quy định tại

Section 1543. Original section/article: 655. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Việc thừa kế trong trường hợp vợ, chồng đã chia tài sản chung; vợ, chồng đang xin ly hôn hoặc đã kết hôn với người khác 
1. Trường hợp vợ, chồng đã chia tài sản chung khi hôn nhân còn tồn tại mà sau đó một người chết thì người còn sống vẫn được thừa kế di sản.
2. Trường hợp vợ, chồng xin ly hôn mà chưa được hoặc đã được Tòa án cho ly hôn bằng bản án hoặc quyết định chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật, nếu một người chết thì người còn sống vẫn được thừa kế di sản.
3. Người đang là vợ hoặc chồng của một người tại thời điểm người đó chết thì dù sau đó đã kết hôn với người khác vẫn được thừa kế di sản.
Chương XXIV 
THANH TOÁN VÀ PHÂN CHIA DI SẢN

Section 1544. Original section/article: 656. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Họp mặt những người thừa kế 
1. Sau khi có thông báo về việc mở thừa kế hoặc di chúc được công bố, những người thừa kế có thể họp mặt để thỏa thuận những việc sau đây:
a) Cử người quản lý di sản, người phân chia di sản, xác định quyền, nghĩa vụ của những người này, nếu người để lại di sản không chỉ định trong di chúc;
b) Cách thức phân chia di sản.
2. Mọi thỏa thuận của những người thừa kế phải được lập thành văn bản.

Section 1545. Original section/article: 657. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Người phân chia di sản 
1. Người phân chia di sản có thể đồng thời là người quản lý di sản được chỉ định trong di chúc hoặc được những người thừa kế thỏa thuận cử ra.
2. Người phân chia di sản phải chia di sản theo đúng di chúc hoặc đúng thỏa thuận của những người thừa kế theo pháp luật.
3. Người phân chia di sản được hưởng thù lao, nếu người để lại di sản cho phép trong di chúc hoặc những người thừa kế có thỏa thuận.

Section 1546. Original section/article: 658. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thứ tự ưu tiên thanh toán 
Các nghĩa vụ tài sản và các khoản chi phí liên quan đến thừa kế được thanh toán theo thứ tự sau đây:
1. Chi phí hợp lý theo tập quán cho việc mai táng.
2. Tiền cấp dưỡng còn thiếu.
3. Chi phí cho việc bảo quản di sản.
4. Tiền trợ cấp cho người sống nương nhờ.
5. Tiền công lao động.
6. Tiền bồi thường thiệt hại.
7. Thuế và các khoản phải nộp khác vào ngân sách nhà nước.
8. Các khoản nợ khác đối với cá nhân, pháp nhân.
9. Tiền phạt.
10. Các chi phí khác.

Section 1547. Original section/article: 659. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phân chia di sản theo di chúc 
1. Việc phân chia di sản được thực hiện theo ý chí của người để lại di chúc; nếu di chúc không xác định rõ phần của từng người thừa kế thì di sản được chia đều cho những người được chỉ định trong di chúc, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp di chúc xác định phân chia di sản theo hiện vật thì người thừa kế được nhận hiện vật kèm theo hoa lợi, lợi tức thu được từ hiện vật đó hoặc phải chịu phần giá trị của hiện vật bị giảm sút tính đến thời điểm phân chia di sản; nếu hiện vật bị tiêu hủy do lỗi của người khác thì người thừa kế có quyền yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại.
3. Trường hợp di chúc chỉ xác định phân chia di sản theo tỷ lệ đối với tổng giá trị khối di sản thì tỷ lệ này được tính trên giá trị khối di sản đang còn vào thời điểm phân chia di sản.

Section 1548. Original section/article: 660. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phân chia di sản theo pháp luật 
1. Khi phân chia di sản, nếu có người thừa kế cùng hàng đã thành thai nhưng chưa sinh ra thì phải dành lại một phần di sản bằng phần mà người thừa kế khác được hưởng để nếu người thừa kế đó còn sống khi sinh ra được hưởng; nếu chết trước khi sinh ra thì những người thừa kế khác được hưởng.
2. Những người thừa kế có quyền yêu cầu phân chia di sản bằng hiện vật; nếu không thể chia đều bằng hiện vật thì những người thừa kế có thể thỏa thuận về việc định giá hiện vật và thỏa thuận về người nhận hiện vật; nếu không thỏa thuận được thì hiện vật được bán để chia.

Section 1549. Original section/article: 661. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hạn chế phân chia di sản 
Trường hợp theo ý chí của người lập di chúc hoặc theo thỏa thuận của tất cả những người thừa kế, di sản chỉ được phân chia sau một thời hạn nhất định thì chỉ khi đã hết thời hạn đó di sản mới được đem chia.
Trường hợp yêu cầu chia di sản thừa kế mà việc chia di sản ảnh hưởng nghiêm trọng đến đời sống của bên vợ hoặc chồng còn sống và gia đình thì bên còn sống có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án xác định phần di sản mà những người thừa kế được hưởng nhưng chưa cho chia di sản trong một thời hạn nhất định. Thời hạn này không quá 03 năm, kể từ thời điểm mở thừa kế. Hết thời hạn 03 năm mà bên còn sống chứng minh được việc chia di sản vẫn ảnh hưởng nghiêm trọng đến đời sống của gia đình họ thì có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án gia hạn một lần nhưng không quá 03 năm.

Section 1550. Original section/article: 662. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phân chia di sản trong trường hợp có người thừa kế mới hoặc có người thừa kế bị bác bỏ quyền thừa kế 
1. Trường hợp đã phân chia di sản mà xuất hiện người thừa kế mới thì không thực hiện việc phân chia lại di sản bằng hiện vật, nhưng những người thừa kế đã nhận di sản phải thanh toán cho người thừa kế mới một khoản tiền tương ứng với phần di sản của người đó tại thời điểm chia thừa kế theo tỷ lệ tương ứng với phần di sản đã nhận, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
2. Trường hợp đã phân chia di sản mà có người thừa kế bị bác bỏ quyền thừa kế thì người đó phải trả lại di sản hoặc thanh toán một khoản tiền tương đương với giá trị di sản được hưởng tại thời điểm chia thừa kế cho những người thừa kế, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.
Phần thứ năm 
PHÁP LUẬT ÁP DỤNG ĐỐI VỚI QUAN HỆ DÂN SỰ CÓ YẾU TỐ NƯỚC NGOÀI 
Chương XXV 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG

Section 1551. Original section/article: 663. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi áp dụng 1. Phần này quy định về pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài.
Trường hợp luật khác có quy định về pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài không trái với quy định từ

Section 1552. Original section/article: 671. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì luật đó được áp dụng, nếu trái thì quy định có liên quan của Phần thứ năm của Bộ luật này được áp dụng.
2. Quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài là quan hệ dân sự thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Có ít nhất một trong các bên tham gia là cá nhân, pháp nhân nước ngoài;
b) Các bên tham gia đều là công dân Việt Nam, pháp nhân Việt Nam nhưng việc xác lập, thay đổi, thực hiện hoặc chấm dứt quan hệ đó xảy ra tại nước ngoài;
c) Các bên tham gia đều là công dân Việt Nam, pháp nhân Việt Nam nhưng đối tượng của quan hệ dân sự đó ở nước ngoài.

Section 1553. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác định pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài 
1. Pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài được xác định theo điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên hoặc luật Việt Nam.
2. Trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên hoặc luật Việt Nam có quy định các bên có quyền lựa chọn thì pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài được xác định theo lựa chọn của các bên.
3. Trường hợp không xác định được pháp luật áp dụng theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài đó.

Section 1554. Original section/article: 665. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng điều ước quốc tế đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài 
1. Trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên có quy định về quyền và nghĩa vụ của các bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài thì quy định của điều ước quốc tế đó được áp dụng.
2. Trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên có quy định khác với quy định của Phần này và luật khác về pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài thì quy định của điều ước quốc tế đó được áp dụng.

Section 1555. Original section/article: 666. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng tập quán quốc tế 
Các bên được lựa chọn tập quán quốc tế trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1556. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Nếu hậu quả của việc áp dụng tập quán quốc tế đó trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật Việt Nam thì pháp luật Việt Nam được áp dụng.

Section 1557. Original section/article: 667. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài 
Trường hợp pháp luật nước ngoài được áp dụng nhưng có cách hiểu khác nhau thì việc áp dụng phải theo sự giải thích của cơ quan có thẩm quyền tại nước đó.

Section 1558. Original section/article: 668. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến 
1. Pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến bao gồm quy định về xác định pháp luật áp dụng và quy định về quyền, nghĩa vụ của các bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4 Điều này.
2. Trường hợp dẫn chiếu đến pháp luật Việt Nam thì quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam về quyền, nghĩa vụ của các bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự được áp dụng.
3. Trường hợp dẫn chiếu đến pháp luật của nước thứ ba thì quy định của pháp luật nước thứ ba về quyền, nghĩa vụ của các bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự được áp dụng.
4. Trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1559. Original section/article: 664. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì pháp luật mà các bên lựa chọn là quy định về quyền, nghĩa vụ của các bên tham gia quan hệ dân sự, không bao gồm quy định về xác định pháp luật áp dụng.

Section 1560. Original section/article: 669. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng pháp luật của nước có nhiều hệ thống pháp luật 
Trường hợp pháp luật của nước có nhiều hệ thống pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến thì pháp luật áp dụng được xác định theo nguyên tắc do pháp luật nước đó quy định.

Section 1561. Original section/article: 670. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Trường hợp không áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài 1. Pháp luật nước ngoài được dẫn chiếu đến không được áp dụng trong trường hợp sau đây:
a) Hậu quả của việc áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật Việt Nam;
b) Nội dung của pháp luật nước ngoài không xác định được mặc dù đã áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết theo quy định của pháp luật tố tụng.
2. Trường hợp pháp luật nước ngoài không được áp dụng theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì pháp luật Việt Nam được áp dụng.

Section 1562. Original section/article: 671. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu 
Thời hiệu đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài được xác định theo pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự đó.
Chương XXVI 
PHÁP LUẬT ÁP DỤNG ĐỐI VỚI CÁ NHÂN, PHÁP NHÂN

Section 1563. Original section/article: 672. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ xác định pháp luật áp dụng đối với người không quốc tịch, người có nhiều quốc tịch 
1. Trường hợp pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến là pháp luật của nước mà cá nhân có quốc tịch nhưng cá nhân đó là người không quốc tịch thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước nơi người đó cư trú vào thời điểm phát sinh quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài. Nếu người đó có
nhiều nơi cư trú hoặc không xác định được nơi cư trú vào thời điểm phát sinh quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước nơi người đó có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất.
2. Trường hợp pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến là pháp luật của nước mà cá nhân có quốc tịch nhưng cá nhân đó là người có nhiều quốc tịch thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước nơi người đó có quốc tịch và cư trú vào thời điểm phát sinh quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài. Nếu người đó có nhiều nơi cư trú hoặc không xác định được nơi cư trú hoặc nơi cư trú và nơi có quốc tịch khác nhau vào thời điểm phát sinh quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước mà người đó có quốc tịch và có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất.
Trường hợp pháp luật được dẫn chiếu đến là pháp luật của nước mà cá nhân có quốc tịch nhưng cá nhân đó là người có nhiều quốc tịch, trong đó có quốc tịch Việt Nam thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1564. Original section/article: 673. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân 
1. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của cá nhân được xác định theo pháp luật của nước mà người đó có quốc tịch.
2. Người nước ngoài tại Việt Nam có năng lực pháp luật dân sự như công dân Việt Nam, trừ trường hợp pháp luật Việt Nam có quy định khác.

Section 1565. Original section/article: 674. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Năng lực hành vi dân sự của cá nhân 
1. Năng lực hành vi dân sự của cá nhân được xác định theo pháp luật của nước mà người đó có quốc tịch, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Trường hợp người nước ngoài xác lập, thực hiện các giao dịch dân sự tại Việt Nam, năng lực hành vi dân sự của người nước ngoài đó được xác định theo pháp luật Việt Nam.
3. Việc xác định cá nhân bị mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi hoặc bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự tại Việt Nam theo pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1566. Original section/article: 675. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Xác định cá nhân mất tích hoặc chết 
1. Việc xác định một cá nhân mất tích hoặc chết tuân theo pháp luật của nước mà người đó có quốc tịch vào thời điểm trước khi có tin tức cuối cùng về người đó, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Việc xác định tại Việt Nam một cá nhân mất tích hoặc chết theo pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1567. Original section/article: 676. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Pháp nhân 1. Quốc tịch của pháp nhân được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi pháp nhân thành lập.
2. Năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân; tên gọi của pháp nhân; đại diện theo pháp luật của pháp nhân; việc tổ chức, tổ chức lại, giải thể pháp nhân; quan hệ giữa pháp nhân với thành viên của pháp nhân; trách nhiệm của pháp nhân và thành viên của pháp nhân đối với các nghĩa vụ của pháp nhân được xác định theo pháp luật của nước mà pháp nhân có quốc tịch, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này.
3. Trường hợp pháp nhân nước ngoài xác lập, thực hiện giao dịch dân sự tại Việt Nam thì năng lực pháp luật dân sự của pháp nhân nước ngoài đó được xác định theo pháp luật Việt Nam.
Chương XXVII 
PHÁP LUẬT ÁP DỤNG ĐỐI VỚI QUAN HỆ TÀI SẢN, QUAN HỆ NHÂN THÂN

Section 1568. Original section/article: 677. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Phân loại tài sản 
Việc phân loại tài sản là động sản, bất động sản được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi có tài sản.

Section 1569. Original section/article: 678. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sở hữu và quyền khác đối với tài sản 
1. Việc xác lập, thực hiện, thay đổi, chấm dứt quyền sở hữu và quyền khác đối với tài sản được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi có tài sản, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Quyền sở hữu và quyền khác đối với tài sản là động sản trên đường vận chuyển được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi động sản được chuyển đến, trừ trường hợp có thỏa thuận khác.

Section 1570. Original section/article: 679. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Quyền sở hữu trí tuệ 
Quyền sở hữu trí tuệ được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi đối tượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ được yêu cầu bảo hộ.

Section 1571. Original section/article: 680. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thừa kế 
1. Thừa kế được xác định theo pháp luật của nước mà người để lại di sản thừa kế có quốc tịch ngay trước khi chết.
2. Việc thực hiện quyền thừa kế đối với bất động sản được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi có bất động sản đó.

Section 1572. Original section/article: 681. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Di chúc 
1. Năng lực lập di chúc, thay đổi hoặc hủy bỏ di chúc được xác định theo pháp luật của nước mà người lập di chúc có quốc tịch tại thời điểm lập, thay đổi hoặc hủy bỏ di chúc.
2. Hình thức của di chúc được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi di chúc được lập. Hình thức của di chúc cũng được công nhận tại Việt Nam nếu phù hợp với pháp luật của một trong các nước sau đây:
a) Nước nơi người lập di chúc cư trú tại thời điểm lập di chúc hoặc tại thời điểm người lập di chúc chết;
b) Nước nơi người lập di chúc có quốc tịch tại thời điểm lập di chúc hoặc tại thời điểm người lập di chúc chết;
c) Nước nơi có bất động sản nếu di sản thừa kế là bất động sản.

Section 1573. Original section/article: 682. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Giám hộ Giám hộ được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi người được giám hộ cư trú.

Section 1574. Original section/article: 683. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hợp đồng 
1. Các bên trong quan hệ hợp đồng được thỏa thuận lựa chọn pháp luật áp dụng đối với hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp quy định tại các khoản 4, 5 và 6 Điều này. Trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận về pháp luật áp dụng thì pháp luật của nước có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất với hợp đồng đó được áp dụng.
2. Pháp luật của nước sau đây được coi là pháp luật của nước có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất với hợp đồng:
a) Pháp luật của nước nơi người bán cư trú nếu là cá nhân hoặc nơi thành lập nếu là pháp nhân đối với hợp đồng mua bán hàng hóa;
b) Pháp luật của nước nơi người cung cấp dịch vụ cư trú nếu là cá nhân hoặc nơi thành lập nếu là pháp nhân đối với hợp đồng dịch vụ;
c) Pháp luật của nước nơi người nhận quyền cư trú nếu là cá nhân hoặc nơi thành lập nếu là pháp nhân đối với hợp đồng chuyển giao quyền sử dụng hoặc chuyển nhượng quyền sở hữu trí tuệ;
d) Pháp luật của nước nơi người lao động thường xuyên thực hiện công việc đối với hợp đồng lao động. Nếu người lao động thường xuyên thực hiện công việc tại nhiều nước khác nhau hoặc không xác định được nơi người lao động thường xuyên thực hiện công việc thì pháp luật của nước có mối liên hệ gắn bó nhất với hợp đồng lao động là pháp luật của nước nơi người sử dụng lao động cư trú đối với cá nhân hoặc thành lập đối với pháp nhân;
đ) Pháp luật của nước nơi người tiêu dùng cư trú đối với hợp đồng tiêu dùng.
3. Trường hợp chứng minh được pháp luật của nước khác với pháp luật được nêu tại khoản 2 Điều này có mối liên hệ gắn bó hơn với hợp đồng thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước đó.
4. Trường hợp hợp đồng có đối tượng là bất động sản thì pháp luật áp dụng đối với việc chuyển giao quyền sở hữu, quyền khác đối với tài sản là bất động sản, thuê bất động sản hoặc việc sử dụng bất động sản để bảo đảm thực hiện nghĩa vụ là pháp luật của nước nơi có bất động sản.
5. Trường hợp pháp luật do các bên lựa chọn trong hợp đồng lao động, hợp đồng tiêu dùng có ảnh hưởng đến quyền lợi tối thiểu của người lao động, người tiêu dùng theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam thì pháp luật Việt Nam được áp dụng.
6. Các bên có thể thỏa thuận thay đổi pháp luật áp dụng đối với hợp đồng nhưng việc thay đổi đó không được ảnh hưởng đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người thứ ba được hưởng trước khi thay đổi pháp luật áp dụng, trừ trường hợp người thứ ba đồng ý.
7. Hình thức của hợp đồng được xác định theo pháp luật áp dụng đối với hợp đồng đó. Trường hợp hình thức của hợp đồng không phù hợp với hình thức hợp đồng theo pháp luật áp dụng đối với hợp đồng đó, nhưng phù hợp với hình thức hợp đồng theo pháp luật của nước nơi giao kết hợp đồng hoặc pháp luật Việt Nam thì hình thức hợp đồng đó được công nhận tại Việt Nam.

Section 1575. Original section/article: 684. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hành vi pháp lý đơn phương 
Pháp luật áp dụng đối với hành vi pháp lý đơn phương là pháp luật của nước nơi cá nhân xác lập hành vi đó cư trú hoặc nơi pháp nhân xác lập hành vi đó được thành lập.

Section 1576. Original section/article: 685. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ hoàn trả do chiếm hữu, sử dụng, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật 
Nghĩa vụ hoàn trả do chiếm hữu, sử dụng, được lợi về tài sản không có căn cứ pháp luật được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi thực hiện việc chiếm hữu, sử dụng tài sản hoặc nơi phát sinh lợi ích được hưởng mà không có căn cứ pháp luật.

Section 1577. Original section/article: 686. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền 
Các bên được thỏa thuận lựa chọn pháp luật áp dụng cho việc thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật của nước nơi thực hiện công việc không có ủy quyền.

Section 1578. Original section/article: 687. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Bồi thường thiệt hại ngoài hợp đồng 
1. Các bên được thỏa thuận lựa chọn pháp luật áp dụng cho việc bồi thường thiệt hại ngoài hợp đồng, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này. Trường hợp không có thỏa thuận thì pháp luật của nước nơi phát sinh hậu quả của sự kiện gây thiệt hại được áp dụng.
2. Trường hợp bên gây thiệt hại và bên bị thiệt hại có nơi cư trú, đối với cá nhân hoặc nơi thành lập, đối với pháp nhân tại cùng một nước thì pháp luật của nước đó được áp dụng.
Phần thứ sáu 
ĐIỀU KHOẢN THI HÀNH

Section 1579. Original section/article: 688. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Điều khoản chuyển tiếp 
1. Đối với giao dịch dân sự được xác lập trước ngày Bộ luật này có hiệu lực thì việc áp dụng pháp luật được quy định như sau:
a) Giao dịch dân sự chưa được thực hiện mà có nội dung, hình thức khác với quy định của Bộ luật này thì chủ thể giao dịch tiếp tục thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11 và các văn bản quy phạm pháp luật quy định chi tiết Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11, trừ trường hợp các bên của giao dịch dân sự có thỏa thuận về việc sửa đổi, bổ sung nội dung, hình thức của giao dịch để phù hợp với Bộ luật này và để áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật này.
Giao dịch dân sự đang được thực hiện mà có nội dung, hình thức khác với quy định của Bộ luật này thì áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11 và các văn bản quy phạm pháp luật quy định chi tiết Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11;
b) Giao dịch dân sự chưa được thực hiện hoặc đang được thực hiện mà có nội dung và hình thức phù hợp với quy định của Bộ luật này thì áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật này;
c) Giao dịch dân sự được thực hiện xong trước ngày Bộ luật này có hiệu lực mà có tranh chấp thì áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11 và các văn bản quy phạm pháp luật quy định chi tiết Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11 để giải quyết;
d) Thời hiệu được áp dụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Không áp dụng Bộ luật này để kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm đối với vụ việc mà Tòa án đã giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật về dân sự trước ngày Bộ luật này có hiệu lực.

Section 1580. Original section/article: 689. Source: Vietnam Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực thi hành Bộ luật này có hiệu lực thi hành từ ngày 01 tháng 01 năm 2017.
Bộ luật dân sự số 33/2005/QH11 hết hiệu lực kể từ ngày Bộ luật này có hiệu lực.
Bộ luật này đã được Quốc hội nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam khóa XIII, kỳ họp thứ 10 thông qua ngày 24 tháng 11 năm 2015./. 
CHỦ TỊCH QUỐC HỘI 
Nguyễn Sinh Hùng 
Additional Text(s) 
WTO Notifications Coversheet (3 text(s) ) 
WTO Notifications Coversheet (3 text(s) ) 
Spanish 
Código Civil N° 91/2015/QH13, de 24 de noviembre de 2015 
French 
Code civil n° 91/2015/QH13 du 24 novembre 2015 
English 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 of November 24, 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Código Civil N° 91/2015/QH13, de 24 de noviembre de 2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Code civil n° 91/2015/QH13 du 24 novembre 2015 
Historical Versions 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 of June 14, 2005 (VN001)
WTO Document Reference 
IP/N/1/VNM/9
IP/N/1/VNM/C/3 
IP/N/1/VNM/I/7
IP/N/1/VNM/E/8 
IP/N/1/VNM/O/17
No data available. 
WIPO Lex No. 
VN079
