Vietnam source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13
Category: Procedure
Source URL: https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/17221
Note: WIPO Lex English reference text.

Section 1. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
er Express Database 
Nice Classification 
Vienna Classification 
Global Design Database 
International Designs Bulletin 
Hague Express Database 
Locarno Classification 
Lisbon Express Database 
Global Brand Database for GIs 
PLUTO Plant Variety Database 
GENIE Database 
WIPO-Administered Treaties 
WIPO Lex - IP Laws, Treaties & Judgments 
WIPO Standards 
IP Statistics 
WIPO Pearl (Terminology) 
WIPO Publications 
Country IP Profiles 
WIPO Knowledge Center 
World Intangible Investment Highlights 
WIPO Technology Trends 
Global Innovation Index 
World Intellectual Property Report 
PCT – The International Patent System 
ePCT 
Budapest – The International Microorganism Deposit System 
Madrid – The International Trademark System 
eMadrid

Section 2. Original section/article: 6t. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
er (armorial bearings, flags, state emblems) 
Hague – The International Design System 
eHague 
Lisbon – The International System of Appellations of Origin and Geographical Indications 
eLisbon 
UPOV PRISMA 
Mediation 
Arbitration 
Expert Determination 
Domain Name Disputes 
Centralized Access to Search and Examination (CASE) 
Digital Access Service (DAS) 
WIPO Pay 
Current Account at WIPO 
WIPO Assemblies 
Standing Committees 
Calendar of Meetings 
WIPO Webcast 
WIPO Official Documents 
Development Agenda 
Tailored Initiatives & Projects 
Collaborative Forums & Dialogues 
Innovation, Creativity and Development Acceleration Program 
IP for Impact 
National IP Strategies 
Cooperation Hub 
Technology and Innovation Support Centers (TISC) 
Technology Transfer 
Inventor Assistance Program 
WIPO GREEN 
WIPO's Pat-INFORMED 
Accessible Books Consortium 
WIPO for Creators 
WIPO Translate 
Speech-to-Text 
Classification Assistant 
Member States 
Observers 
Director General 
Activities by Unit 
External Offices 
Staff Positions 
Affiliated Personnel Positions 
Procurement 
Results & Budget 
Financial Reporting 
Oversight 
Arabic 
English 
Spanish 
French 
Russian 
Chinese 
Laws 
Treaties 
Judgments 
Browse By Jurisdiction 
Code of Civil Procedure No. 92/2015/QH13 of November 25, 2015, Viet Nam 
Back 
Latest Version in WIPO Lex 
Details 
Details 
Year of Version 
2016 
Dates 
Adopted: 
November 25, 2015 
Type of Text 
Framework Laws
Subject Matter 
Enforcement of IP and Related Laws
Notes

Section 3. Original section/article: 517. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
under Chapter XLII, Part Ten of this Code states that it takes effect as of July 1, 2016, except for some provisions specifically indicated in the said Article, related to provisions of the Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13, which takes effect on January 1, 2017. 
Available Materials
Main Text(s) 
Related Text(s) 
Main text(s) 
Main text(s) 
English 
Code of Civil Procedure No. 92/2015/QH13 of November 25, 2015 
Vietnamese 
Bộ Luật tố Tụng Dân Sự số 92/2015/QH13 ngày 25/11/2015 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Code of Civil Procedure No. 92/2015/QH13 of November 25, 2015 
﻿ Civil Procedures Code No. 92/2015/QH13 
THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM ASSEMBLY Independence – Freedom - Happiness 
-------- --------------- No.: 92/2015/QH13 Hanoi, November 25th, 2015 
CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam; 
The National Assembly promulgates the Civil Procedure Code. 
PART ONE GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Chapter I TASK AND EFFECT OF THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE

Section 4. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Regulation scope and task of the Civil Procedure Code The Civil Procedure Code provides for the basic principles in civil proceedings; the order and procedures for initiating lawsuits at People‟s Court (hereinafter referred to as Courts) to settle cases of civil, marriage and family, business, trade and labor (hereinafter referred to as civil lawsuits) and order and procedures to request the Court to settle matters regarding civil, marriage, family, business, trade, labor (hereinafter referred to as civil matters); order and procedures for settlement of civil lawsuits and civil matters (hereinafter referred to as civil cases) at Courts; procedures for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts, award of foreign arbitrators; enforcement of civil judgments; tasks, entitlements and responsibilities of proceeding authorities/officers; rights and obligations of participants in procedures, of individuals, of regulatory agencies, people‟s armed units, economic organizations, political organizations, socio-political organizations, political – social – professional organizations, social organizations, social – professional organizations (hereinafter referred to as agencies and organizations) that are relevant to ensure that the resolution of civil cases is carried out quickly, accurately, truthfully and lawfully.
The Civil Procedure Code contributes to the protection of the justice, of human‟s rights, civil rights, protection of socialist regime, of the interests of the State, legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations and individuals; educates people to strictly abide by law.

Section 5. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Regulated entities and effect of the Civil Procedure Code 1. The Civil Procedure Code applies to all civil proceedings throughout the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, including mainland, offshore island, territorial waters and airspace.
2. The Civil Procedure Code applies to all civil proceedings conducted by consular offices of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in foreign countries.
3. The Civil Procedure Code applies to the settlement of civil cases involving foreign element(s); where the international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory provide otherwise, the provisions of such international treaties shall apply.
4. For foreign individuals, agencies and organizations that enjoy diplomatic privileges and immunities or consular privileges and immunities under Vietnamese laws, international treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory, the civil cases related to such individuals, agencies and/or organizations shall be settled through the diplomatic channel.
Chapter II BASIC PRINCIPLES

Section 6. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Compliance with laws in civil procedures All civil procedural activities of presiding agencies, presiding officers, civil procedure- participants and of relevant individuals, agencies and organizations must comply with the provisions of this Code.

Section 7. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to request Courts to protect legitimate rights and interests 1. Individuals, agencies and organizations defined by this Code shall have the right to institute civil lawsuits, request the resolution of civil matters at competent Courts in order to protect the justice, human‟s rights, civil rights, benefits of the State, legitimate rights and interests of their own or of others.
2. Courts must not refuse to settle a civil case for the reason that there is no applicable law provision for such case.
A civil case without applicable law provisions is a civil case falling within the governing scope of civil laws but there is no applicable law provision at the time such civil case arises and an agency/organization/individual requests the Court to settle.
The settlement of civil case specified in this clause shall comply with the principles prescribed in the Civil Code and this Code.

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Involved parties' right to decision-making and self-determination 1. The involved parties shall have the right to decide whether to initiate civil lawsuits, petition jurisdictional Courts to settle the civil cases. The Courts shall only accept for settlement of civil cases when they have received lawsuit petitions and/or written requests from an involved party and shall settle the civil cases only within the scope of such lawsuit petition or written request.
2. During the settlement of a civil case, the involved parties shall have a right to terminate or change their petitions or voluntarily reach agreement with one another, which is not contrary to law and social ethics.

Section 9. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Supply of evidences and proof in civil procedures 1. The involved parties shall have the right and obligation to initiatively collect and supply evidence to Courts and prove that their petitions are well grounded and lawful.
Agencies, organizations and individuals initiating lawsuits or file their petitions to protect legitimate rights and interests of their own or of other persons shall have the right and obligation to collect and supply evidence and to prove the ground and the lawfulness like the involved parties.
2. The Courts shall assist the involved parties to collect evidence and shall only collect and verify the evidence in the cases prescribed by this Code.

Section 10. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Responsibility of competent individuals, agencies and organizations to supply materials and evidences Agencies, organizations and individuals shall, within the scope of their tasks and powers, provide the involved parties, the Courts, the People‟s Procuracy with materials and evidences currently being under their possession or management sufficiently and timely at the petition of the involved parties, the Courts and the Procuracy according to regulations in this Code and shall take legal responsibility for the supply of such materials and evidences; in case they cannot do so, a written notification containing the explanation shall be made and sent to the involved parties, the Courts and the Procuracy.

Section 11. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Equality in rights and obligations in civil procedures 1. All people are equal before law regardless of their ethnics, religions, educational levels, occupations and social levels.
All agencies, organizations and individuals are equal in the implementation of rights and obligations in civil procedures.
2. The Courts have the responsibility to create equal conditions for agencies, organizations and individuals to exercise their rights and obligations in civil procedure

Section 12. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ensuring the involved parties' right to protect legitimate rights and interests 1. The involved parties have the right to defend themselves or to ask lawyers or other persons who satisfy conditions specified in this Code to protect their legitimate rights and interests.
2. The Courts have the responsibility to ensure the conditions for the involved parties to exercise their right to defense.
3. The State has the responsibility to provide legal assistant for such entities according to law provisions enabling them to exercise the right to protect their legitimate rights and interests before the Courts.
4. No one shall limit the right to protect legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties in civil procedures.

Section 13. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Mediation in civil procedures The Courts have the responsibility to conduct mediation and create favorable conditions for the involved parties to reach agreement with one another on the resolution of civil cases under the provisions of this Code.

Section 14. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participation of People’s Jurors in adjudication of civil lawsuits 1. The adjudication of first instance of civil lawsuits shall be attended by the People‟s Jurors as prescribed in this Code, except for adjudication under the simplified procedures.
2. Upon the vote for decisions on settlement of civil lawsuits, the People‟s Jurors are equal in powers to the Judges.

Section 15. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Judges, People’s Jurors are independent in adjudication of civil lawsuits and settlement of civil matters and only comply with law 1. Upon trial over civil lawsuits, Judges and People‟s Jurors shall be independent and only comply with law.
2. All acts of hindering or interfering the adjudication of Judges and People‟s Jurors or the settlement of civil matters of Judges are strictly prohibited.

Section 16. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Responsibilities of civil proceeding authorities and proceeding officers 1. Proceeding authorities/officers must respect people and submit to people‟s supervision.
2. The Courts are responsible for the protection of the justice, human‟s rights, civil rights, socialist regime, benefits of the State, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals.
The procuracies are responsible for the protection of the law, human‟s rights, civil rights, socialist regime, benefits of the State, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and individuals and contribute in the assurance that law is strictly and consistently complied with.
3. Proceeding authorities/officers must keep the State secrets and work secret according to law; preserve the nation‟s fine customs and practices, protect minors, keep professional secrets, business secrets, personal secrets of the involved parties at their legitimate petitions.
4. The proceeding authorities/officers shall take legal responsibility for the performance of their tasks and powers. If a proceeding officer commits a violation against law, depending on the nature and severity of the violation, he/she shall be disciplined or liable to criminal prosecution according to law provisions.
5. If a proceeding officer, during the performance of his/her tasks and powers, commits illegal acts that causes damages to an agency/organization/individual, then the direct management agency of such officer shall pay the compensation to the aggrieved party according to law provisions pertaining to compensation responsibility.

Section 17. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Collective trials by Courts A Court shall conduct the collective trial over civil lawsuits and make decisions under the majority rule, except for adjudication according to simplified procedures.

Section 18. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prompt, equal and public trials by Courts 1. The Court trials shall be conducted promptly and within the time prescribed in this Code and must ensure the equality.
2. The Court trials shall be public. In special cases that it is necessary to keep the State secrets, preserve the nation‟s fine customs and practices, protect minors or to keep professional secrets, business secrets, personal secrets of the involved parties at their legitimate claims, the Courts may conduct the trials behind closed doors.

Section 19. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ensuring impartiality and objectiveness in civil procedures 1. Chief Justices, Judges, People‟s Jurors, ombudspersons, Court clerks, procurators chairpersons, prosecutors, inspectors, interpreters, expert-witnesses and members of Price Assessment Councils must not conduct or participate in civil procedures if there are good reasons to believe that they may not be impartial in performing their tasks and exercising their powers.
2. The assignment of proceeding officers must ensure the conditions for them to be impartial and objective when exercising their tasks and powers.

Section 20. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Following the two-level adjudication regime 
1. The Courts shall follow the two-level adjudication regime.
The first-instance judgments or decisions of the Courts can be appealed against under the provisions of this Code.
First-instance judgments or decisions of the Courts which are not appealed against according to appellate procedures within the time limit provided for by this Code shall become legally effective. Where first-instance judgments or decisions are appealed against, the cases must undergo appellate trials. The appellate judgments or decisions shall be legally effective.
2. The Courts' first-instance judgments or decisions of the Courts which have already taken legal effect but have been detected with law violations or new details according to provisions of this Code shall be reviewed according to the cassation or reopening procedures.

Section 21. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cassation of trials The Supreme People‟s Court shall conduct cassation of trials of all Courts; Collegial People‟s Courts shall conduct cassation of trials of People‟s Courts of central-affiliated cities and provinces (hereinafter referred to as People‟s Courts of provinces), People‟s Courts of districts, towns, provincial-affiliated cities and cities affiliated to central-affiliated cities (hereinafter referred to as People‟s Courts of districts) within their competence to ensure that law is applied strictly and consistently.

Section 22. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Assurance of the effect of Courts' judgments and decisions 1. Legally effective judgments and decisions of Courts must be enforced and strictly observed by all agencies, organizations and individuals.
2. Within the scope of their respective tasks and powers, Courts and agencies or organizations which are assigned the tasks to enforce Courts' judgments or decisions must strictly enforce them and bear responsibility before law for the performance of such tasks.
3. Courts may request the enforcement authorities to notify them of the progress and the result of the enforcement of the Courts‟ judgments/decisions. The enforcement authorities directly in charge of the enforcement of the Courts‟ judgments/decisions shall respond the Courts‟ request.

Section 23. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Spoken and written language used in civil procedures Spoken and written language to be used in civil procedures shall be the Vietnamese.
Participants in civil procedures may use the voices and scripts of their ethnic groups; in this case interpreters are required.
Participants in civil procedures being people having hearing, speaking or visual disability may use the language of disabled people; in this case interpreters are required.

Section 24. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Supervising the law observance in civil procedures 1. The Procuracies shall supervise the law observance in civil procedures and exercise the rights to petition, recommendation or appeal according to law provisions in order to ensure lawful and timely resolution of civil cases.
2. The Procuracies shall participate in first-instance meetings for civil matters; first-instance trials of lawsuits where evidence are collected by the Courts or where matters under dispute are public properties, public benefits, land use right, housing use right or involved parties are minors,
legally incapacitated persons or, persons with limited capacity of exercise, people with limited cognition or behavior control or cases specified in clause 2

Section 25. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The procuracies shall participate in appellate, cassation and reopening trials/meetings.
4. The Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall preside over and cooperate with the Supreme People‟s Court in providing guidance on the implementation of this Article.

Section 26. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Courts' responsibility for forwarding documents and papers 1. The Courts shall have the responsibility to delivery, forward and notify of their judgments, decisions, summons, invitations and other relevant documents to the participants in the civil procedures according to the provisions of this Code.
2. People‟s Committees of communes or relevant agencies, organizations and individuals shall forward the judgments, decisions, summons, invitations and other relevant documents of the Courts at the request of the Courts and shall notify the Courts of the result of such forwarding.

Section 27. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participation of agencies, organizations and individuals in civil procedures Agencies, organizations and individuals shall have the right and obligation to participate in civil procedures according to the provisions of this Code, contributing to the lawful and prompt resolution of civil cases at courts.

Section 28. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Assurance of oral argument in adjudication 1. The Courts shall ensure that the involved parties and people protecting legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties implement the right to get involve in oral argument in first- instance trials, appellate trials, cassation trials and reopening trials according to provisions of this Code.
2. The involved parties and the people protecting the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties may collect and submit the evidences and relevant materials to the Courts since the Courts accepted civil lawsuits and shall notify to each other of the submitted materials and evidences; present, give question and answer, express opinions about evidences and present applicable provisions to defend their claims and their legitimate rights and interests or to reject others‟ claims according to provisions of this Code.
3. During the process of adjudication, every material and evidence shall be reviewed sufficiently, obviously, comprehensively and publicly, except for cases where materials and evidences must not be published prescribed in clause 2

Section 29. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. The Courts shall direct the oral argument, make question about unclear matters and issue judgments/decisions on the basis of the argument result.

Section 30. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Assurance of the right to complaints and denunciations in civil procedures Agencies, organizations and individuals shall have the right to complain about, individuals shall have the right to denounce, illegal acts of proceeding authorities/officers or of any agencies, organizations and individuals in civil proceedings.
Competent agencies, organizations or individuals must accept, consider and settle promptly and lawfully complaints and denunciations; notify in writing the settlement results to the complainants and denouncers.
Chapter III 
COURT'S JURISDICTION

Section 31. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
CIVIL CASES FALLING UNDER THE COURTS' JURISDICTION

Section 32. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil disputes falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. Disputes over the Vietnamese nationality among individuals.
2. Disputes over property ownership and other rights over property.
3. Disputes over civil transactions, civil contracts.
4. Disputes over intellectual property rights, technology transfers, except for the cases prescribed in Clause 2,

Section 33. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. Disputes over property inheritance.
6. Disputes over compensation for non-contractual damage.
7. Disputes over compensation due to the application of administrative preventive measures unconformable to law regulations on competition, excluding compensation claims that have been settled in administrative lawsuits.
8. Disputes over the development and utilization of water resources and the waste discharge to water as prescribed in the Law on water resources.
9. Disputes over land according to legislation on land; disputes over the right to forest ownership/enjoyment according to regulations in the Law on forest protection and development.
10. Disputes relating to the professional press operation under law on press.
11. Disputes relating to petitions for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid.
12. Disputes relating to properties forfeited to enforce judgments in accordance with the law on enforcement of civil judgments.
13. Disputes over property auction results and payment of expenses for registration to buy property through auction in accordance with the law on enforcement of civil judgment.
14. Other civil disputes, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 34. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil petitions falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. The petition for declaration or revocation of a decision on declaration of a legally incapacitated person, person with limited capacity of exercise or a person with limited cognition or behavior control.
2. The petition for announcement of the search of persons who are absent from their residential places and the management of their properties.
3. The petition for declaration or revocation of decision on declaration of a person‟s missing.
4. The petition for declaration or revocation of decision on declaration of a person‟s death.
5. The petition for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam or non-recognition of civil judgments or decisions, or decisions on properties in criminal or administrative judgments or decisions of foreign Courts or not to recognize civil judgments or decisions, or decisions on properties in
criminal or administrative judgments or decisions of foreign courts, which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam.
6. The petition for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid.
7. The petition for recognition of the successful out-of-Court mediation.
8. The petition for recognition of property within Vietnam‟s territory to be ownerless and for recognition of the ownership of the persons managing such ownerless property within Vietnam‟s territory according to regulations in point e clause 2

Section 35. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
9. The petition for determination of property ownership and use rights, division of common properties for enforcement of judgments in accordance with regulations in the Law on enforcement of civil judgments.
10. Other civil petitions, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 36. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Marriage and family-related disputes falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. Divorces, disputes over child rearing or property division upon divorces; post-divorce division.
2. Disputes over division of spousal common property during their marriage.
3. Disputes over change of post-divorce child custodian.
4. Disputes over determination of fathers or mothers for children; or determination of children for fathers or mothers.
5. Disputes over alimonies.
6. Disputes over childbirth using the childbirth assistance technique or surrogacy for humanitarian reasons.
7. Disputes over child custodian, division between couples living like husbands and wives without marriage registration or between spouses illegally cancel the marriage registration.
8. Other disputes relating to marriage and family, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 37. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Marriage-and family-related petitions falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. The petitions for revocation of illegal marriages.
2. The petitions for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces.
3. The petitions for recognition of agreements between the parents about the change of post- divorce custodian or recognition of change of post-divorce child custodian decided by agencies, organizations and individuals according o law regulations on marriage and family.
4. The petitions for restriction on rights of a father or mother towards a minor child or his/her right to see the child after divorce.
5. The petitions for termination of the adoption of children.
6. The petitions relating to the surrogacy according to law regulations on marriage and family.
7. The petitions for recognition of agreements of termination of the effect of the division of spousal common properties during their marriage to have been carried out according to the judgments/decisions of the Courts.
8. The petitions for declaration of nullification of the agreements on the property division between the husband and the wife according to legislation on marriage and family.
9. The petition for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam or for non-recognition of judgments or decisions on marriage and family of foreign Courts or other foreign competent agencies; or for non-recognition of judgments or decisions on marriage and family of foreign Courts or other competent foreign competent agencies which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam.
10. The petition for determination of fathers or mothers for children; or determination of children for fathers or mothers according to legislation on marriage and family.
11. Other petitions relating to marriage and family, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 38. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Business and/or trade disputes falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. Disputes arising from business or trade activities among individuals and/or organizations with business registration, which are all for the purpose of profits.
2. Disputes over intellectual property rights or technology transfers among individuals or organizations, which are all for the purposes of profits.
3. Disputes between persons who are not members of a company but involve in transaction in transfer of capital holding and the company and/or its members.
4. Disputes between a company and its members; disputes between a limited liability company and its manager or between a joint-stock company and members of its Board of Directors, its Director or its General Director, or among members of a company regarding the establishment, operation, dissolution, merge, consolidation, total division, partial division, property transfer and/or organizational transformation of the company.
5. Other civil disputes relating to business or trade activities, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 39. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Business or trade petitions falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. The petitions for revocation of a resolution of the Shareholder general assembly, a resolution of the Member assembly according to legislation on enterprise.
2. The petitions related to the resolution of disputes by Vietnamese commercial arbitrators under law regulations on commercial arbitration.
3. The petitions for arrest of aircrafts, seagoing vessels according to law on Vietnamese civil aviation, Vietnamese maritime, except for cases where aircrafts/vessels must be arrested serving lawsuit settlement.
4. The petitions for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign courts' judgments or decisions on business or commercial matters, or non-recognition of foreign courts' judgments or decisions on business or commercial matters, which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam.
5. The petitions for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign arbitrators' award on business or commercial matters.
6. Other petitions relating to business or trade activities, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 40. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Labor disputes falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. Individual labor disputes between employees and employers, which have been mediated through mediation procedures of labor mediators but the involved parties fail to comply with mediation results, or which cannot be mediated or are not mediated within the law- established time limit, except the following disputes which must not necessarily be mediated through mediation procedures:
a) Disputes over labor discipline in the form of dismissal or over cases of unilateral termination of labor contracts;
b) Disputes over damage compensation or over benefit policy upon termination of labor contracts;
c) Disputes between household servants and their employers;
d) Disputes over social insurance as prescribed in laws on social insurance, over health insurance as prescribed in laws on health insurance, over unemployment insurance as prescribed in laws on employment or over occupational accident insurance and occupational diseases as prescribed in laws on labor hygiene and safety;
dd) Disputes over damage compensation between laborers and enterprises or non-business organizations sending laborers to work overseas under contracts.
2. Collective labor disputes over rights between employee collectives and employers under the labor law which have been settled by chairpersons of the People's Committees of districts but the employee collectives or employers disagree with such decisions or which are not settled by chairpersons of the People's Committees of districts within the prescribed time limit.
3. Labor disputes include:
a) Disputes over vocational training and practice;
b) Disputes over labor outsourcing;
c) Disputes over rights relating to trade union, trade union expenditure;
d) Disputes over labor safety and labor hygiene.
4. Disputes over compensation for illegal strike.
5. Other labor disputes, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 41. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Labor petitions falling under the courts' jurisdiction 1. Petitions for declaration of a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid.
2. Petitions for consideration of legitimacy of a strike.
3. Petitions for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign courts' labor judgments or decisions, or for non-recognition of foreign courts' labor judgments or decisions which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam.
4. Petitions for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of labor award of foreign arbitrators.
5. Other petitions, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other agencies and organizations as prescribed by law.

Section 42. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of Courts over particular decisions of agencies/organizations 1. When resolving civil cases, the Courts may revoke particular decisions of agencies or organizations or competent persons of such agencies or organizations in particular cases which are obviously unlawful, infringing upon the rights and legitimate interests of involved parties in these civil cases.
2. Particular decisions specified in clause 1 of this Article are decisions on particular matters that have been issued and applied once to one or a number of particular entities. If the civil cases are related to such decisions, they must be considered in such the same civil cases by the courts.
3. When considering repealing decisions specified in clause 1 of this Article, the Courts shall invite agencies, organizations or competent persons that have issued such decisions to participate in the procedures in the capacity as person with relevant interests and duties.
Agencies, organizations, competent persons who have issued the decisions must participate in the procedures and present their opinions about the particular decisions repealed by the courts.
4. Competence of Courts in charge of civil cases subject to considering the repealing of particular decisions specified in clause 1 of this Article shall be determined according to corresponding provisions in the Law on administrative procedures about competence of People‟s Courts of districts/provinces.

Section 43. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
JURISDICTION OF COURTS OF DIFFERENT LEVELS

Section 44. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of People’s Courts of districts 1. People's Courts of districts shall have the jurisdiction to settle according to first-instance procedures the following disputes:
a) Disputes over civil matters, marriage and family, prescribed in Articles 26 and 28 of this Code;
b) Disputes over business/trade activities prescribed in clause 1

Section 45. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) Labor disputes prescribed in

Section 46. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. People's Courts shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the following petitions:
a) Civil petitions prescribed in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of

Section 47. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Petitions relating to marriage and family prescribed in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 of

Section 48. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) Petitions relating to business/trade activities prescribed in clause 1 and clause 6

Section 49. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
d) Labor petitions prescribed in clause 1 and clause 5

Section 50. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Disputes and petitions prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, which involve parties or properties in foreign countries or which must be judicially entrusted to representative agencies of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam overseas or to foreign courts/competent agencies, shall not fall under the jurisdiction of people's Courts of districts, except for cases specified in clause 4 of this Article.
4. People‟s Courts of districts where Vietnamese citizens reside shall be in charge of cancelling illegal marriage, settling divorce petitions and disputes pertaining to rights and obligations of spouses, parents and children, parents and children adoption and guardian relationship between Vietnamese citizens living in frontier areas and citizens of neighboring countries living near Vietnam according to provisions of this Code and other Vietnam‟s law provisions.

Section 51. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of Tribunals of People’s Courts of districts 1. The Civil tribunals of People's Courts of districts shall have the jurisdiction to resolve according to first-instance procedures cases relating to civil, business, trade and labor matters falling under the jurisdiction of the People‟s Courts of districts as provided for in

Section 52. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The family and juvenile tribunals of People's Courts of districts shall have the jurisdiction to resolve according to first-instance procedures for cases relating to marriage and family falling under the jurisdiction of the People‟s Courts of districts as provided for in

Section 53. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Regarding People‟s Courts without a tribunal, the Chief Justice shall take responsibility for conducting adjudication and assigning the Judge to take charge of the cases falling under the jurisdiction of People‟s Courts of districts.

Section 54. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of People’s Courts of provinces 1. People's Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to settle according to first-instance procedures the following disputes:
a) Civil, marriage- and family-related, business, trade or labor disputes prescribed in Articles 26, 28, 30 and 32 of this Code, except for disputes falling under the jurisdiction of the district-level people's Courts as provided for in Clause 1 and Clause 4

Section 55. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Civil, marriage-and family-related, business, trade or labor petitions prescribed in Articles 27, 29, 31 and 33 of this Code, except for petitions falling under the jurisdiction of the district-level people's Courts as prescribed in Clause 2 and Clause 4

Section 56. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) Disputes and petitions prescribed in Clause 3,

Section 57. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The People's Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to resolve according to first- instance procedures the civil cases falling under the jurisdiction of the People's Courts of districts as provided for in

Section 58. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, which are taken up by the People's Courts of provinces for settlement when necessary or at the request of People‟s Courts of districts.

Section 59. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of Specialized tribunals of People’s Courts of provinces 1. Civil tribunals of People‟s Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to:
a) Resolve according to first-instance procedures the civil disputes/petitions falling under the jurisdiction of People‟s Courts of provinces specified in

Section 60. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Resolve according to appellate procedures the cases where the civil judgments/decisions of People‟s Courts of districts that are not legally effective which are appealed against according to regulations in this Code.
2. Family and juvenile tribunals of People‟s Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to:
a) Resolve according to first-instance procedures the disputes/petitions relating to marriage and family falling under the jurisdiction of People‟s Courts of provinces specified in

Section 61. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Resolve according to appellate procedures the cases where the judgments/decisions relating to marriage and family of People‟s Courts of districts that are not legally effective which are appealed against according to regulations in this Code.
3. Economic tribunals of People‟s Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to:
a) Resolve according to first-instance procedures the disputes/petitions relating to business and trade falling under the jurisdiction of People‟s Courts of provinces specified in

Section 62. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Resolve according to appellate procedures the cases where the judgments/decisions relating to business and trade of People‟s Courts of districts that are not legally effective are appealed against according to regulations in this Code.
4. Labor tribunals of People‟s Courts of provinces shall have the jurisdiction to:
a) Resolve according to first-instance procedures the labor disputes/petitions falling under the jurisdiction of People‟s Courts of provinces specified in

Section 63. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Resolve according to appellate procedures the cases where the labor judgments/decisions of People‟s Courts of districts that are not legally effective which are appealed against according to regulations in this Code.

Section 64. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Territorial jurisdiction of courts 1. Territorial jurisdiction of Courts to settle civil lawsuits shall be determined as follows:
a) The Courts of the localities where the defendants reside or work, applicable to defendants being individuals, or where the defendants are headquartered, applicable to defendants being agencies or organizations, shall have the jurisdiction to settle according to first-instance procedures for civil, marriage- and family-related, business, trade or labor disputes prescribed in Articles 26, 28, 30 and 32 of this Code;
b) The involved parties shall have the right to agree with each other in writing to petition the Courts of the localities where the plaintiffs reside or work, applicable to plaintiffs being individuals, or where the plaintiffs are headquartered, applicable to plaintiffs being agencies or organizations, to settle civil, marriage and family-related, business, trade or labor disputes prescribed in Articles 26, 28, 30 and 32 of this Code;
c) Disputes over real estates must be settled by Courts where such real estates are located.
2. Territorial jurisdiction of Courts to settle civil matters shall be determined as follows:
a) The Courts of the areas where persons who are to be declared to be incapable of civil acts or having limited capacity of exercise or having limited cognition or behavior control reside or work shall have the jurisdiction to resolve such petitions;
b) The Courts of the areas where persons absent from their residential places are to be announced for search or to be declared missing or dead reside for the last time, shall have the jurisdiction to settle petitions for announcement of the search for persons absent from their residential places and management of such persons' properties or petitions for declaring a person missing or dead;
c) The Courts of the areas where the persons petition to repeal the declaration of being incapable of civil acts or having limited capacity of exercise or having limited cognition or behavior control reside or work shall have the jurisdiction to repeal such declaration.
The Court which has issued a decision to declare a person missing or dead shall have the jurisdiction to resolve petitions to revoke its decision;
d) The Courts of the areas where the persons who are obliged to execute foreign courts‟ civil, marriage and family, business, trade, or labor judgments or decisions reside or work, applicable to judgment debtors being individuals, or where the judgment debtors are headquartered, applicable to judgment debtors being agencies or organizations, or where exists the property relating to the enforcement of such judgments or decisions of foreign courts, shall have the jurisdiction to resolve petitions for recognition and enforcement of foreign courts' civil, marriage and family, business, trade or labor judgments or decisions in Vietnam;
dd) The Courts of the areas where the petition senders reside or work, applicable to individuals, or where the petition senders are headquartered, applicable to agencies or organizations, shall have the jurisdiction to settle petitions for non-recognition of foreign courts' civil, marriage and family, business, trade or labor judgments or decisions, which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam;
e) The Courts of the areas where the persons who are obliged to execute award of foreign arbitrators reside or work, applicable to judgment debtors being individuals, or where the judgment debtors are headquartered, applicable to judgment debtors being agencies or organizations, or where exists the property relating to the enforcement of foreign arbitrators' award, shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam the award of foreign arbitrators;
g) The Courts of the areas where illegal marriages are registered shall have the jurisdiction to resolve petitions to revoke such illegal marriages;
h) The Court of the area where one of the parties to a voluntary divorce, agreed child custody or property division resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petition for recognition of the voluntary divorces and the agreement on child custody and property division upon divorces;
i) The Court of the area where one of the parties that petitions the Court to recognize their agreement on change of post-divorce child custodian resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve that petition.
If the agencies, organizations and individuals petition for the change of post-divorce child custodian, the Court where the child resides shall have the jurisdiction to resolve that petition;
k) The Court of the area where one parent of a minor child resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve a petition to restrict rights of the father or mother towards the minor child or his/her right to see the child after the divorce;
l) The Court of the area where an adoptive parent or adopted child resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve a petition to terminate the child adoption;
m) The Courts of the area where notary organization which have performed notarization are located shall have the jurisdiction to settle the petitions for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid;
n) The Courts of the localities where competent judgment-executing bodies are headquartered or where exist properties related to the judgment enforcement shall have the jurisdiction to settle petitions for determination of property ownership or use rights and for division of common properties for judgment enforcement and other petitions according to provisions of Law on enforcement of civil judgments;
o) The territorial jurisdiction of Courts to settle petitions related to the settlement by Vietnamese commercial arbitrations of disputes shall comply with the law on commercial arbitration;
p) The Courts of the localities where a property is located shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for recognition of such property to be ownerless in Vietnam‟s territory and the petition for recognition of the ownership of the person who currently use such ownerless property;
q) The Courts of the locality where a surrogate mother resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve petitions related to the surrogacy;
r) The Courts of the locality where a person having a common property shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for recognition of the agreement on termination of effect of the division of common property during the marriage that is conducted according to the judgment/decision of the Courts;
s) The Courts of the locality where the petitioner resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve petitions for recognition of the successful medication at the Court;
t) The Courts of the locality where the petitioner resides or works shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for declaration of nullification of the agreement on properties of spouses according to legislation on marriage and family; the petitions for determination of father and mother for a child according to legislation on marriage and family;
u) The Courts of the locality where a headquarter of a enterprise is located shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for cancellation of the resolution of the Shareholder general assembly or a resolution of the Member assembly;
v) The Courts of the locality where a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement is concluded shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for declaration of such labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid;
x) The Courts of the locality where a strike occurs shall have the jurisdiction to resolve the petitions for determination of the lawfulness of the strike;
y) The territorial jurisdiction of the Courts in resolving the petition for arrest of aircrafts/vessels shall comply with regulations in

Section 65. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. If a civil lawsuits has been accepted by a Court and is being resolved according to regulations of this Code on the territorial jurisdiction of Courts but the residence, headquarter or transaction place of the involved parties is changed, such civil lawsuits shall be continuously resolved by that Court.

Section 66. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of Courts selected by plaintiffs or petitioners 1. The plaintiffs shall have the right to select Courts for resolution of civil, marriage and family- related, business, trade or labor disputes in the following cases:
a) If the plaintiff does not know where the defendant resides or works or where his/her head- office is located, the plaintiff may petition the Courts of the area where the defendant last resides or works or where the head-office of the defendant is last located or where the defendant' properties are located to settle the case;
b) If the dispute arises from the operation of a branch of an organization, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where the organization's head-office is located or where its branch is located to settle it;
c) If the defendant does not have residence place, work place or head-office in Vietnam or the case is related to disputes over alimonies, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where he/she resides or works to settle the case;
d) If the dispute is over compensation for non-contractual damage, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where he/she resides, works or where his/her headquarter is located or where the damage is caused to settle the case;
dd) If the dispute is over compensation for damage or allowance upon termination of a labor contract, over social insurance, the rights and/or interests in relation to job, wages, income and other working conditions for the laborers, the plaintiff being a laborer may petition the Court of the area where he/she resides or works to settle it;
e) If the dispute arises from the employment of labor by a sub-contractor or a mediator, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where his/her actual employer resides, works or is headquartered or where the sub-contractor or the mediator resides or works to settle it;
g) If the dispute arises from a contractual relation, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where the contract is performed to settle the case;
h) If the defendants reside, work or are headquartered in different places, the plaintiff may petition the Court of the area where one of the defendants resides or works or is headquartered to settle the case;
i) If the dispute is over immovables which exist in different localities, the plaintiff may request the Court of the area where one of such immovables exist to settle the dispute.
2. The petitioners may select Courts to settle their marriage and family-related petitions in the following cases:
a) Regarding civil petitions prescribed in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of

Section 67. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the petitioners may ask the Courts of the areas where they reside, work or are headquartered to resolve them;
b) Regarding petitions for revocation of illegal marriages provided for in Clause 1

Section 68. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the requesters may ask the Courts of the areas where an involved party of illegal marriage registration resides to resolve them;
c) Regarding petitions for restriction of rights of fathers or mothers towards their minor children or their right to visit the children after the divorces, the petitioners may ask the Courts of the areas where the children reside to resolve them.

Section 69. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Transferring civil cases to other courts; settlement of disputes over jurisdiction 
1. If a Court has accepted a civil case which does not fall within its jurisdiction, it shall issue a decision to transfer the civil cases dossier to a competent Court and cross out the civil cases in its acceptance book. Such decision must be immediately sent to the Procuracy all involved parties and relevant agencies, organizations and individuals.
The involved parties and relevant agencies, organizations and individuals may make complaints, the Procuracy may submit recommendation for such decision within 03 working days from the day on which the decision is received. Within 03 working days from the day on which the complaint or the recommendation is received, the Chief Justice of the Court that issued the decision to transfer the civil cases must resolve the complaint/recommendation. The decision of the Chief Justice shall be the final decision.
2. Disputes over the jurisdiction of People‟s Court of districts in the same province shall be settled by the Chief Justice of the People‟s Court of province.
3. Any dispute over the jurisdiction between People's Courts of districts of different provinces or between People's Courts of provinces that falls under the territorial jurisdiction of the Collegial People‟s Court shall be settled by the Chief Justice of the High People's Court.
4. Any dispute over the jurisdiction between People's Courts of districts of different provinces or between People's Courts of provinces that falls under the territorial jurisdiction of different Collegial People‟s Courts shall be settled by the Chief Justice of the Supreme People's Court.

Section 70. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Joining or separating cases 1. A Court may join two or more cases which it has separately accepted to a single case to resolve if the joinder and resolution in the same case ensure the law compliance.
Regarding cases where multiple persons filing the same petitions for lawsuits against the same individuals or agencies/organizations, the Courts may gather their petitions to resolve in the same cases.
2. A Court may separate a case with different claims into two or more cases if the separation and resolution of the separated cases strictly comply with law.
3. Upon the case merger or separation prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the Courts which have accepted the petitions must issue decisions and send them immediately to the procuracies of the same level, the involved parties and relevant agencies, organizations and individuals.

Section 71. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
RESOLUTION OF CIVIL CASES WITHOUT LAW PROVISIONS TO APPLY

Section 72. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rules for determining jurisdiction of Courts in cases where there is no law provisions to apply Jurisdiction of Courts in acceptance and resolution of civil cases in cases where there is no law provisions to apply shall comply with regulations in

Section 73. Original section/article: 44. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Order, procedures for acceptance and resolution of civil cases without law provisions to apply Order and procedures for acceptance and resolution of civil cases in cases where there is no law provisions to apply shall comply with provisions of this Code.

Section 74. Original section/article: 45. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rules for resolving civil cases without law provisions to apply 
1. The application of custom shall be conducted as follows:
The Courts shall apply custom to resolve civil cases when the involved parties do not reach agreements on and the law does not provide for such cases. The custom must not be contrary to basic rules of civil legislation specified in

Section 75. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Civil Code.
When petitioning Courts to resolve civil cases, involved parties may adduce customs to request the Courts to apply.
Courts shall verify the applicability of the customs, ensuring the compliance with provisions of

Section 76. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Civil Code.
If involved parties adduce different customs, the ones accepted at the places where the civil cases occur shall prevail.
2. The application of law provisions in the same matters shall be conducted as follows:
The Courts shall apply law provisions applicable to the same matters to resolve civil cases when the involved parties do not reach agreements on and the law does not provide for such cases as prescribed in

Section 77. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Civil Code and clause 1 of this Article.
When applying law provisions applicable to the same matter, the Court shall determine clearly the legal nature of the civil cases, determine clearly that in current legal system there is no legal provisions cover such relationship and determine legal provisions cover similar civil relationship.3. Basic rules of civil law provisions, precedents and the justice shall be applied as follows:
Courts shall apply basic rules of civil law provisions, precedents and the justice to settle civil cases when the application of law provisions applicable to the same matters as prescribed in

Section 78. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Civil Code and clauses 1 and 2 of this Article is not available.
Basic rules of civil law provisions are specified in

Section 79. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Civil Code.
Precedents shall be studied and applied in the resolution of civil cases after being selected by the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court and announced by the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court.
The justice shall be determined on the basis of the reasons admitted by everyone, conformable with the principle of being humanitarian, unbiased and equal in rights and obligations of involved parties in such civil cases.
Chapter IV CIVIL PROCEEDING AUTHORITIES, CIVIL PROCEDURE -PRESIDING OFFICERS 
AND REPLACEMENT OF CIVIL PROCEDURE –PRESIDING OFFICERS

Section 80. Original section/article: 46. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil proceeding authorities, proceeding officers 1. The civil proceeding authorities include:
a) The Court;
b) The Procuracy.
2. The civil proceeding officers include:
a) The Chief Justices, Judges, People‟s Jurors, ombudspersons and Court clerks;
b) The Chairpersons of the Procuracies, the Procurators, the Inspectors.

Section 81. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of the courts' Chief Justices 1. The court's Chief Justice shall have the following tasks and powers:
a) To organize the resolution of civil cases falling under the jurisdiction of the Court; ensuring the principle that the Judge and the Juror carry out the adjudication separately and comply with law;
b) To decide on the assignment of Judges to accept the civil cases, Judges to resolve civil cases, People‟s Jurors to participate in trial panels to hear civil lawsuits; and to decide on the assignment of ombudspersons, Court clerks to conduct procedures for civil cases, ensuring the principle prescribed in clause 2

Section 82. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) To decide on the replacement of Judges, People‟s Jurors, Ombudspersons and/or Court clerks before the opening of Court sessions;
d) To decide on the replacement of expert-witnesses and/or interpreters before the opening of Court sessions;
dd) To issue decisions and conduct civil proceedings under the provisions of this Code;
e) To settle complaints and/or denunciations under the provisions of this Code;
g) To file appeals according to the cassation or reopening procedures against legally-effective Court judgments or decisions according to the provisions of this Code or request the competent Chief Justice to consider the appeal according to the cassation or reopening procedures against legally-effective Court judgments or decisions.
h) To request competent agencies to consider amending or repealing a legislative document if such document is discovered denoting against constitutions, laws, resolutions of National Assembly, ordinances, resolutions of the Standing committee of the National Assembly, superior legislative documents of regulatory agencies as prescribed in this Code;
i) To resolve the acts obstructing the civil procedures as prescribed in law;
k) To perform the tasks and powers prescribed in law.
2. When the Chief Justice is absent, a Deputy-Chief Justice shall be authorized by the Chief Justice to perform the Chief Justice's tasks and powers, excluding the right to file appeals prescribed in point g Clause 1 of this Article. The Deputy-Chief Justice shall be answerable to the Chief Justice for the authorized tasks and powers.

Section 83. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of Judges As assigned by the Court‟s Chief Justice, the Judges shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To proceed the application for initiating lawsuits and the petitions and accept the civil cases according to regulations in this Code;
2. To file the dossier of civil cases;
3. To collect and verify the evidence, to hold Court sessions and meetings to resolve civil cases according to regulations in this Code;
4. To decide to apply, change or cancel the provisional emergency measures;
5. To decide to suspend or terminate the resolution of civil cases and decide to continue the resolution of the civil cases;
6. To provide explanation and guidance for involved parties so that they can exercise the right to apply for legal assistant according to law on legal assistance;
7. To hold meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating and issue decisions on recognition of the agreements between involved parties according to provisions of this Code;
8. To decide to bring civil lawsuits to Court for trial, or bring civil matters for resolution;
9. To convene people to a trial or a meeting;
10. To work as the chairperson or to participate in adjudicating civil lawsuits and resolving civil matters;11. To request the Court‟s Chief Justice to assign ombudspersons to assist the conduct of civil proceedings according to the provisions of this Code;
12. To discover and request the Court‟s Chief Justice to request competent agencies to consider amending or repealing a legislative document discovered denoting against constitutions, laws, resolutions of National Assembly, ordinances, resolutions of the Standing committee of the National Assembly, superior legislative documents of regulatory agencies as prescribed in this Code;
13. To resolve the acts obstructing the civil procedures as prescribed in law;
14. To conduct other proceedings when resolving civil cases according to the provisions of this Code.

Section 84. Original section/article: 49. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of People’s Jurors As authorized by the Court‟s Chief Justice, the People‟s Jurors shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To study case files prior to the opening of Court sessions;
2. To request the Chief Justices and/or Judges to issue necessary decisions according to their respective competence;
3. To participate in the trial panel of civil lawsuits;
4. To conduct proceedings and take equal power to the Judge in voting on issues falling within the trial panels' jurisdiction.

Section 85. Original section/article: 50. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of ombudspersons As assigned by the Court‟s Chief Justice, the inspectors shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To conduct inspection of dossiers of civil cases subject to reconsideration in court‟s judgments and decisions according to the cassation or reopening procedures.
2. To make conclusion about the inspection and the inspection results and propose solutions for the civil cases to the Court‟s Chief Justice;
3. To collect materials and evidences relevant to the civil cases as prescribed in this Code;
4. To assist the Judge to conduct civil proceedings according to the provisions of this Code;
5. To conduct other tasks according to the provisions of this Code.

Section 86. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of Court clerks As assigned by the Court‟s Chief Justice, the Court clerks shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To make necessary professional preparations prior to the opening of Court sessions;
2. To announce the rules of Court sessions;
3. To check and report to the trial panels the list of those summoned to Court sessions;
4. To write up a minute of the Court session, the meeting and the minute of statements of the involved parties in the civil procedures;
5. To conduct other tasks according to the provisions of this Code.

Section 87. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cases where proceeding officers must refuse to conduct the procedures or be replaced The proceeding officers must refuse to conduct the procedures or be replaced in the following cases:
1. They are concurrently the involved parties, the representatives or relatives of the involved parties;
2. They have participated in the proceedings in the capacity as defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of involved parties, witnesses, expert-witnesses or interpreters in the same case;
3. There are clear grounds to believe that they may not be impartial in performing their tasks.

Section 88. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Replacing Judges or People’s Jurors Judges and/or People‟s Jurors must refuse to conduct the civil procedures or be replaced in the following cases:
1. In one of the cases prescribed in

Section 89. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. They are in the same trial panel and have a close relationship with one another; in this case, only one person is allowed to participate in the civil procedures;
3. They participated in first-instance, appellate, cassation or reopening procedures in the resolution of such civil cases and have issued first-instance judgments, appellate judgments/decisions, cassation or reopening decisions, civil matter resolving decisions, decisions to terminate the resolution of civil cases or decisions to recognize the agreement between involved parties; if such persons are members of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court or Committees of Judges of Collegial People‟s Courts, they shall be allowed to participate in the resolution of such cases according to cassation/reopening procedures;
4. They have acted as proceeding officers in such cases in the capacity as the ombudsperson, the Court clerk, the prosecutor or the inspector.

Section 90. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Replacement of Court clerks, ombudspersons 
Court clerks and ombudspersons must refuse to conduct civil procedures or be replaced in the following cases:
1. In one of the cases prescribed in

Section 91. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. They have acted as proceeding officers in such cases in the capacity as the Judge, People‟s Jurors, ombudsperson, the Court clerk, the prosecutor or the inspector;
3. They are relatives of one of other proceeding officers in the case.

Section 92. Original section/article: 55. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and procedures for request for replacement of Judges, People’s Jurors, Ombudspersons, Court clerks 1. The refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and the request for the replacement of the Judges, People‟s Jurors, Ombudspersons, Court clerks before the opening of Court sessions/meetings must be made in writing, clearly stating the reason(s) and grounds therefor.
2. The refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and the request for the replacement of persons specified in clause 1 of this Article in Court sessions/meetings must be recorded in the minutes of the meetings.

Section 93. Original section/article: 56. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision on the replacement of Judges, People’s Jurors, Ombudspersons and/or Court clerks 1. Before the opening of Court sessions, the replacement of Judges, People's Jurors, Ombudspersons and/or Court clerks shall be decided by the Chief Justice. If the to be-replaced Judge is the court‟s Chief Justice, the competence to decide shall be adjusted as follows:
a) The replacement of Judges being Chief Justice of People‟s Courts of districts shall be decided by the Chief Justices of People‟s Courts of provinces;
b) The replacement of Judges being Chief Justice of People‟s Courts of provinces shall be decided by the Chief Justices of Collegial People‟s Courts having territorial competence towards such People‟s Courts of provinces;
c) The replacement of Judges being Chief Justice of Collegial People‟s Courts shall be decided by the Chief Justices of Supreme People‟s Courts.
2. In Court sessions, the replacement of Judges, People‟s Jurors, Ombudspersons or Court clerks shall be decided by the trial panels after listening to the opinions of the persons requested to be replaced. The trial panels shall discuss matters in the deliberation rooms and make decisions by majority. The decision on postponement of the Court session for the replacement of Judges, People‟s Jurors, ombudspersons and/or Court clerks shall be decided by the trial panels. The appointment of other Judges, People‟s Jurors, ombudspersons and/or Court clerks as the replacement shall be decided by the courts' Chief Justices. If the to be-replaced person is the court‟s Chief Justice, the competence to decide shall conform to regulations in clause 1 of this Article.
3. The replacement of Judges and/or Court Clerks when processing the civil matters shall comply with regulations in clause 1 and clause 2

Section 94. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. Within 03 working days from the day on which the Court session/meeting is postponed, the court‟s Chief Justice shall assign the replacing persons.

Section 95. Original section/article: 57. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of procuracy chairpersons 
1. When supervising the law observance in the civil proceedings, the procuracy chairperson shall have the following tasks and powers:
a) To organize and direct the work of supervising law observance in civil proceedings;
b) To decide on assignment of procurators to supervise law observance in civil proceedings, to participate in Court sessions for adjudication of civil lawsuits, sessions/meetings for resolution of civil matters according to the provisions of this Code; to decide on assignment of inspectors to carry out the civil procedures for civil cases, ensuring the principle specified in clause 2

Section 96. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) To decide on replacement of procurators or inspectors;
d) To appeal according to appellate, cassation or reopening procedures against Courts judgments or decisions according to the provisions of this Code;
dd) To make requests, proposals according to regulations in this Code;
e) To settle complaints and/or denunciations under the provisions of this Code;
g) To perform the tasks and powers prescribed in law.
2. When the Procuracy Chairperson is absent, a deputy-procuracy chairperson shall be authorized by the Chairperson to perform his/her tasks and powers, except for the power prescribed in point d clause 1 of this Article. The Deputy-procuracy chairperson shall be answerable to the procuracy chairperson for the authorized tasks and powers.

Section 97. Original section/article: 58. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of procurators When assigned by the procuracy chairperson to supervise the law observance in civil proceedings, the procurators shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To investigate the return of the petition;
2. To investigate the acceptance and resolution of civil cases;
3. To study the case files; request the Court to verify and collect evidences during the resolution of civil cases according to provisions of this Code; collect materials and evidences according to regulations in clause 6

Section 98. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
4. To attend Court sessions/meetings and express opinions of procuracies about the resolution of cases according to provisions of this Code;
5. To inspect judgments/decisions of courts;
6. To request Courts to conducted procedural activities as provided for in this Code;
7. To request competent Chairpersons of procuracy to appeal against judgments/decisions of Courts that is contrary to law;
8. To control the procedural activities of participants; to request competent agencies and organizations to handled violations of participants in procedures against law;
9. To perform other civil procedural tasks and powers falling within competence of procuracies as prescribed in this Code.

Section 99. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of inspectors 
When assigned to conduct the civil procedures, the inspectors shall have the following tasks and powers:
1. To study the case files and report the results to procurators;
2. To file civil case inspection files according to the assignment of procurators or chairpersons of procuracies;
3. To assist procurators to conduct inspection of the compliance with law provisions in civil procedures.

Section 100. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Replacement of procurators/inspectors Procurators/inspectors must refuse to conduct civil procedures or be replaced in the following cases:
1. In one of the cases prescribed in

Section 101. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. They have acted as proceeding officers in such cases in the capacity as the Judge, People‟s Jurors, ombudsperson, the Court clerk, the prosecutor or the inspector.

Section 102. Original section/article: 61. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and procedures for request for replacement of the procurators/inspectors 1. Before the opening of Court sessions, the refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and the request for the replacement of the procurators must be made in writing, clearly stating the reason(s) and grounds therefor.
The refusal to conduct the civil proceedings and the request for the replacement of the inspectors must be made in writing, clearly stating the reason(s) and grounds therefor.
2. At the Court session, the refusal to conduct the procedures or the request for the replacement of the procurators must be recorded in the minutes of the Court sessions.

Section 103. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision on replacement of procurators or inspector 1. Prior to the opening of Court sessions, the replacement of procurators shall be decided by the chairpersons of the procuracies of the same level; if the to be-replaced procurators are procuracy chairpersons, their replacement shall be decided by the chairpersons of the immediate superior procuracies.
The replacement of the inspectors shall be decided by the procuracy chairpersons at the same level.
2. In Court sessions, the replacement of procurators shall be decided by the trial panels after listening to the opinions of the to be-replaced persons. The trial panels shall discuss matters in the deliberation rooms and make decisions by majority.
The decision on postponement of the Court session for the replacement of procurators shall be decided by the trial panels. The appointment of procurators as the replacement shall be decided by the chairpersons of the procuracies of the same level. If the to be-replaced procurators are chairpersons of the procuracies, their replacement shall be decided by the chairpersons of the immediate superior procuracies.
3. The replacement of procurators when processing the civil matters shall comply with regulations in clause 3

Section 104. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. Within 03 working days from the day on which the Court session/meeting is postponed, the procuracy chairperson shall assign the replacing persons and send the Court a written notification.
Chapter V COMPOSITION OF PANELS FOR RESOLUTION OF CIVIL CASES

Section 105. Original section/article: 63. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Panel for first-instance trial over civil lawsuits The panel for first-instance trial over civil lawsuits shall be composed of one Judge and two People‟s Jurors, except for cases specified in

Section 106. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. In special cases, the first- instance trial panel may consist of two Judges and three People‟s Jurors.
If the case involves minor people, People‟s Jurors being people who are working at Communist Youth Union of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Women‟s Union, family affair authorities, children affair authorities must participate in the first-instance trial panel.
Regarding labor cases, People‟s Jurors being people who have worked or are working in a employee collective‟s representative organization or people having knowledge in labor law shall participate in the first instance trial panel.

Section 107. Original section/article: 64. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Panel for appellate trial over civil lawsuits The panel for appellate trial over civil lawsuits shall be composed of three Judges, except for cases specified in

Section 108. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Adjudication of civil lawsuits under simplified procedures The first-instance trial, appellate trial procedures for civil lawsuits under simplified procedures shall be conducted by one Judge.

Section 109. Original section/article: 66. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Panel for cassation or reopening trial over civil lawsuits 1. The Committee of Judges of Collegial People‟s Court shall carry out the cassation or reopening trial through a trial panel including 3 Judges or the whole of the Committee of Judges of Collegial People‟s Court.
2. The Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall carry out the cassation or reopening trial through a trial panel including 5 Judges or all of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court.

Section 110. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Arrangements for resolution of civil matters 1. The civil, marriage and family, business, trade or labor petitions prescribed in Clause 5 of

Section 111. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, Clauses 4 and 5 of

Section 112. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, and clauses 2, 3 and 4

Section 113. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code or the appeals against civil matter-settling decisions shall be settled by a board of three Judges.
2. The civil, marriage and family, business, trade or labor petitions which do not fall within the cases prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article shall be settled by one Judge.
3. Arrangement for resolution of business or trade petitions prescribed in Clause 2,

Section 114. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall comply with law regulations on commercial arbitration.
Chapter VI 
PARTICIPANTS IN CIVIL PROCEDURES

Section 115. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
INVOLVED PARTIES IN civil cases

Section 116. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Involved parties in civil cases 1. The involved parties in civil lawsuits are agencies, organizations and individuals, including the plaintiffs, the defendants and the persons with related interests and obligations.
The involved parties in civil matters are agencies, organizations and individuals, including the persons petitioning settlement of civil matters and persons with related interests and obligations.
2. The litigator in a civil lawsuit is the person that initiates lawsuit or the person for whom the other agencies, organizations and individuals prescribed by this Code initiates the lawsuit to request the Court to resolve the civil lawsuit when he/she holds that the legitimate rights and interests of that person have been infringed upon.
Agencies and organizations prescribed by this Code, which initiate civil lawsuits to request Courts to protect the public interests, the State's interests in the domains under their respective charges are also plaintiffs.
3. The defendant in a civil lawsuit is the person against whom the plaintiff initiates a lawsuit or the other agencies, organizations and individuals prescribed by this Code initiates a lawsuit to request the Court to resolve the civil lawsuit when they holds that the legitimate rights and interests of the plaintiff have been infringed upon by such person.
4. The persons with related interests and/or obligations in civil lawsuits are those who neither initiate lawsuits nor are sued, but the resolution of the civil lawsuits is related to their interests and/or obligations and, therefore they themselves, or other involved parties, request to include them in the proceedings in the capacity as the persons with related interests and/or obligations and such requests are accepted by courts.
Where the resolution of a civil lawsuit is related to the interests and/or obligations of a person but no one requests to include him or her in the proceedings in the capacity as the persons with related interests and/or obligations, the Court shall have to include that person in the proceedings in the capacity as the person with related interests and/or obligations.
5. The persons petitioning the resolution of civil matters are those who petition the Court to or not to recognize a legal event to form the basis for the arising of rights and/or obligations relating to civil issues, marriage and family, business, trade and labor of themselves or of other agencies, organizations and individuals; and/or petition the Court to recognize their rights and/or obligations relating to civil issues, marriage and family, business, trade, labor.
6. The persons with related interests and/or obligations in civil matters are those who do not petition the resolution of civil matters, but the resolution of the civil matters is related to their interests and/or obligations and, therefore they themselves, or other involved parties in the civil matters, request to include them in the proceedings in the capacity as the persons with related interests and/or obligations and such requests are accepted by the Courts.
Where the resolution of a civil matter is related to the interests and/or obligations of a person but no one requests to include him or her in the proceedings in the capacity as the persons with related interests and/or obligations, the Court shall have to include that person in the proceedings in the capacity as the person with related interests and/or obligations.

Section 117. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
The involved parties' civil procedure law capacity and civil procedure act capacity 1. The civil procedure law capacity means the capability to have the law-prescribed rights and obligations in civil procedures. Every agencies, organizations and individuals shall have the same civil procedure law capacity in petitioning the Court to protect his/her/its legitimate rights and interests.
2. The civil procedure act capacity means the ability to exercise one's own rights and obligations by him/herself in civil procedures or authorize his/her representative to participate in civil procedures.
3. The involved parties being persons aged full 18 years or older shall have full civil procedure act capacity, except for legally incapacitated person or except otherwise provided for by law.
Regarding persons with limited capacity of exercise, people with limited cognition or behavior control, their civil procedure act capacity shall be determined according to the decision of the Court.
4. The involved parties being persons aged under 6 years or persons losing their civil act capacity shall not have the civil procedure act capacity. The exercise of the civil proceeding rights and/or obligations of such persons, the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of such persons at Courts shall be performed by their lawful representatives.
5. For the involved parties being persons aged between full 6 and under 15 years, the protection of their civil proceeding rights and/or obligations and the protection of legitimate rights and interests of such persons at Courts shall be performed by their lawful representatives.
Regarding persons with limited capacity of exercise, people with limited cognition or behavior control, their civil procedure act rights and/or obligations and the protection of their legitimate rights and interests shall be determined according to the decision of the Court.
6. The involved parties being persons aged between full 15 years and under 18 years, who have worked under labor contracts or involved in civil transactions with their own properties shall have the right to participate in civil procedures themselves regarding matters related to such labor or civil relations. In such cases, the Court shall have the right to summon their lawful representatives to participate in the procedures. For other matters, the exercise of the civil proceeding rights and/or obligations of such persons at Courts shall be performed by their lawful representatives.
7. The involved parties being agencies, organizations shall participate in civil procedures through their lawful representatives.

Section 118. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the involved parties The involved parties shall have equal rights and obligations when participating in civil procedures. When participating in civil procedures, the involved parties shall have the following rights and obligations:
1. To respect courts, and strictly observe the court's rules;
2. To advance Court fees and charges and pay Court fees and charges and other expenses as prescribed by law;
3. To provide sufficiently and accurately address of their residence/work place; during the resolution of cases, any change of address of residence/workplace shall be promptly notified other involved parties and the Court;
4. To maintain, modify, supplement or withdraw their petitions in accordance with this Code;
5. To supply materials and evidences; to prove to protect their legitimate rights and interests;
6. To petition agencies, organizations and individuals that are keeping or managing materials and evidences to supply such materials and evidences to them;
7. To petition the Court to verify and collect materials and evidences of the cases which they cannot perform themselves; petition the Court to request other involved parties to present materials and evidences they are keeping; petition the Court to issue the decision to request the agencies, organizations and individuals that are keeping and managing the materials/evidences to supply such materials and evidences; request the Court to summon witnesses, to ask for expertise, evaluation or price appraisal;
8. To read and take notes, make photocopies of materials and evidences produced by other involved parties or collected by courts, except for materials and evidences specified in clause 2

Section 119. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
9. To send other involved parties or their lawful representatives photocopies of the petition and materials and evidences, excluding evidences and materials that other involved parties have been provided with as prescribed in clause 2

Section 120. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
For cases where the photocopies of lawsuit petition, materials and evidences cannot be made due to good and sufficient reasons, they may request the Court to assist;
10. To request Courts to decide on the application, change or cancellation of the application of provisional emergency measures;
11. To reach agreement with one another on the resolution of cases: to participate in mediation conducted by courts;
12. To receive regular notices for the exercise of their rights and obligations;
13. To protect by themselves or ask other persons to protect their legitimate rights and interests;
14. To petition the replacement of civil proceeding officers or participants in civil procedures in accordance with this Code;
15. To participate in the Court sessions according to the provisions of this Code;
16. To be present according to Court summons and abide by Court decisions during the settlement of their cases;
17. To ask the Courts to summon persons with related interests and obligations to participate in civil procedures;
18. To ask Courts to suspend the settlement of their cases in accordance with this Code;
19. To make questions to other persons on matters related to the cases or to propose to Courts matters which need to be questioned on other persons; to confront each other or witnesses;
20. To argue in Court sessions, to present argument about assessment of the evidence and the applied law provisions;
21. To be provided with extracts of Court judgments, judgments or decisions;
22. To appeal against or complain about Court judgments or decisions in accordance with Code;
23. To ask competent persons to appeal according to cassation or reopening procedures against legally effective judgments or decisions of courts;
24. To strictly abide by legally effective judgments or decisions of courts;
25. To enjoy rights of involved parties in a way that such rights are not misused to obstruct the procedures of Courts and/or other involved parties; to bear the consequences prescribed by this Code if failing to fulfill obligations;
26. To have other rights and obligations prescribed by law.

Section 121. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the plaintiffs 1. The involved parties' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 122. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. To modify the contents of lawsuit claims; withdraw part or whole of their lawsuit claims.
3. To agree or disagree with part or whole of the counter-claims of defendant, persons with related interests and/or obligations who have independent claims.

Section 123. Original section/article: 72. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the defendants 1. The involved parties' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 124. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. To be notified by Courts of the lawsuits against them.
3. To agree or disagree with part or whole of the claims of the plaintiff, persons with related interests and/or obligations who have independent claims.
4. To make counter-claims against the plaintiffs if they are related to the plaintiffs' claims or set off the obligations claimed by the plaintiffs. For counter-claims, the defendants shall have the plaintiffs' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 125. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. To make independent claims for persons with relevant interests and/or obligations and such claims shall relevant to the lawsuit settlement. For independent claims, the defendants shall have the plaintiffs' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 126. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
6. If the counter-claims or the independent claims are not accepted by the Court to be resolved in the same case, the defendant may initiate another lawsuit.

Section 127. Original section/article: 73. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the persons with related interests and/or obligations 1. Persons with related interests and/or obligations shall have the following rights and obligations:
a) The rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 128. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) To be allowed to make independent claims or participate in the procedures on the side of the plaintiffs or the defendants.
2. If the persons with related interests and obligations make independent claims and such independent claims are related to the lawsuit settlement, they shall have the plaintiffs' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 129. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If different independent claims are not accepted
by the Court to be resolved in the same case, the persons with related interests and/or obligations may initiate another lawsuit.
3. If the persons with related interests and/or obligations participate in the procedures on the side of the plaintiff or only have interests, they shall have the plaintiffs' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 130. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. If the persons with related interests and/or rights participate in the procedures on the side of the defendants or only have obligations, they shall have the defendants' rights and obligations prescribed in

Section 131. Original section/article: 74. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inheritance of procedural rights and obligations. 1. Where the involved parties being individuals die while participating in the procedures and their property rights and obligations are inherited, their heirs shall participate in the procedures.
2. Where the involved parties being agencies or organizations have to terminate their operations or to be dissolved, consolidated, merged, divided, separated or organizationally transformed while participating in the procedures, the inheritance of their procedural rights and obligations shall be determined as follows:
a) Where the organizations that have to terminate their operations or to be dissolved are joint- stock companies, limited liability companies or partnerships, the individuals and/or organizations being members of such organizations or their lawful representatives shall participate in the procedures;
b) Where the agencies, organizations that have to terminate their operations or to be dissolved are regulatory agencies, people's armed force units, political organizations, socio-political organizations, professional and socio-political organizations, social organizations, socio- professional organizations or state-owned enterprises, the lawful representatives of the superior agencies of such agencies/organizations or the lawful representatives of the agencies/organizations which take over the former's rights and obligations shall participate in the procedures;
c) Where the organizations are consolidated, merged, divided, separated or organizationally transformed, the individuals or organizations that take over the former's rights and obligations shall participate in the procedures.
3. Where the owners of the organizations are changed and the rights and obligations are transferred to the new owners, the new owners shall inherit the procedural rights and obligations.
4. Where the organizations received the rights and obligations according to civil law provisions, such organizations shall inherit the procedural rights and obligation.
5. Where the organizations other than legal persons participate in the procedures but their representatives or managers die, such organizations shall have to appoint other persons as their representatives to participate in the procedures; if such organizations fail to appoint representatives or have to terminate their operations or to be dissolved, the individuals being members of such organizations shall participate in the procedures.

Section 132. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
OTHER PARTICIPANTS IN THE PROCEDURES

Section 133. Original section/article: 75. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Defense counsels of involved parties' legitimate rights and interests 
1. The defense counsels of involved parties' legitimate rights and interests are persons who participate in the procedures to protect the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests.
2. The following persons can act as defense counsels of the involved parties legitimate rights and interests when they were asked by the involved parties and have been accepted by Courts to participate in the procedures to protect the involved parties‟ legitimate rights and interests:
a) Lawyers who participate in the procedures under the provisions of the legislation on lawyers;
b) Legal aid officers or persons participating in legal aid under the law on legal aid;
c) Representatives of employee collective‟s representative organizations who are defense counsels of employee‟s legitimate rights and interests in labor cases according to legislation on labor and trade union;
d) Vietnamese citizens who have full civil act capacity, have clean criminal records or have been expunged convictions, who do not fall into the cases subject to the application of administrative handling measures; who are not cadres or civil servants in the Court or procuracy sector, officers or non-commissioned officers in the public security force.
3. The defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests can defend the legitimate rights and interests of more than one involved party in the same case, if those persons' legitimate rights and interests do not conflict each other. Many defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests may jointly defend the legitimate rights and interests of one involved party in a case.
4. When applying the Court to carry out the registration procedure for defense counsels of involved parties‟ legitimate rights and interests, the applicant shall present the following papers:
a) The lawyers shall present papers according to regulations in the Law on lawyers;
b) Legal aid officers or persons participating in legal aid under the law on legal aid shall present the written appointment for legal aid issued by the organizations providing legal aid and the cards of legal aids or lawyer‟s card;
c) Representatives of employee collective‟s representative organization shall present the writing that such organizations have appointed them to defend the legitimate rights and interests of the employees/collective labor;
d) Vietnamese citizens satisfying conditions specified in point d clause 2 of this Article shall present the written petitions of the involved parties and their identity papers.
5. After checking papers, if the applicant is satisfactory to act as the defense counsel of the involved parties‟ legitimate rights and interests as prescribed in clauses 2, 3 and 4 of this Article, within 03 working days from the day on which the application is received, the Court shall record to the register the defense counsel of the involved parties‟ legitimate rights and interests and shall certify the application for defense counsels of the involved parties. If the application is rejected, the Court shall send the applicant a written notification containing the explanation.

Section 134. Original section/article: 76. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests 1. To participate in the procedures right at the time of lawsuit initiation or at any stage in the civil procedures.
2. To collect and supply materials and evidences to courts; to study case files and to take notes, to copy necessary materials in the case files in order to defend the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties, except for materials and evidences specified in clause 2

Section 135. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. To participate in mediation, Court sessions or make their written defense of the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties to Courts for consideration.
4. To petition on behalf of the involved parties the replacement of proceeding officers and/or other procedure participants according to the provisions of this Code.
5. To provide involved parties with legal aid related to the defense of their legitimate rights and interests; if they are authorized by the involved parties, they shall receive the papers and procedural documents that are transmitted or notified by the Court on behalf of the involved parties and shall give then to the involved parties.
6. To comply with rights and obligations specified in clauses 1, 6, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of

Section 136. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
7. To have other rights and obligations prescribed by law.

Section 137. Original section/article: 77. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Witnesses Persons who know details related to the contents of cases may be summoned by Courts at the request of the involved parties to participate in the procedures in the capacity as witnesses. Persons who lose their civil act capacity cannot act as witnesses.

Section 138. Original section/article: 78. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of witnesses 1. To supply all information, documents and/or objects they have obtained, which are related to the resolution of cases.
2. To honestly declare details they know, which are related to the resolution of cases.
3. To refuse to make declarations if their declarations are related to State secrets, professional secrets, business secrets, personal secrets, family secrets or such declarations adversely affect or harm the involved parties being their close relatives.
4. To be off duty while the Courts summon them or take their testimonies, if they work in agencies or organizations.
5. To be paid related expenses according to law provisions.
6. To petition the Courts which have summoned them and competent agencies to protect their lives, health, honor, dignity, properties and other legitimate rights and interests when participating in the procedures; to complain about procedural acts of proceeding officers.
7. To compensate and take legal responsibility for damage caused to the involved parties or other persons by their untruthful testimonies.
8. To be present at courts, Court sessions/meetings under the court's summon of the Courts if the witness's testimony must be given publicly at courts, Court sessions/meetings; where witnesses fail to show up in Court sessions/meetings without good and sufficient reasons and their absence obstruct the adjudication/resolution, the Judges, the trial panels or the civil matter resolution council may issue decisions to escort them to Court sessions/meetings, unless the witnesses are minors.
9. To make commitments before Courts to perform their rights and obligations, except for cases where the witnesses are minors.

Section 139. Original section/article: 79. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Expert-witnesses Expert-witnesses are persons who have law-prescribed necessary knowledge and/or experiences in the fields where exist objects needed to be expertised, who are called by Courts to expertise the objects in question or at the request of the involved parties according to regulations in

Section 140. Original section/article: 80. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of expert-witnesses 1. Expert-witnesses shall have the following rights and obligations:
a) To read documents in the case files which are related to the to be-expertised objects; to petition Courts to provide documents necessary for the expertise;
b) To question participants in legal procedures about matters related to the to be - expertised objects;
c) To be present under the courts' summons; present, explain and answer questions related to the expertise and expertising conclusions in an honest, well-grounded and objective manner;
d) To notify the Courts in writing of the impossibility to conduct the expertise as the matters needed to be expertised go beyond their professional capability and/or the documents supplied in service of the expertising are inadequate or unusable;
dd) To preserve the received documents and return them to Courts together with their expertising conclusions or with the notices on impossibility to conduct expertise;
e) Not to arbitrarily collect materials for conducting the expertise nor to contact other participants in the procedures if such contacts effect the expertising results; not to disclose secret information they know while conducting the expertise nor to inform the expertising results to other persons, except for the Judges who decide to request the expertise;
g) To be paid related expenses according to law provisions;
h) To make commitments before Courts to perform their rights and obligations.
2. Expert-witnesses must refuse to take the job or be replaced in the following cases:
a) They fall into one of the cases prescribed in Clauses 1 and 3 of

Section 141. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Law on judicial expertise;
b) They have participated in the procedures in the capacity as defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties, as witnesses or interpreters in the same case;
c) They have acted as proceeding officers in such cases in the capacity as the Judge, People‟s Jurors, ombudsperson, the Court clerk, the prosecutor or the inspector.

Section 142. Original section/article: 81. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Interpreters 1. Interpreters are persons capable of translating a foreign language into Vietnamese and vice versa in cases where procedure participants are unable to use Vietnamese. Interpreters shall be selected by an involved party or under the agreement between involved parties and are accepted or requested by courts.
2. People who understand language of disabled persons or can use language of disabled people are also considered interpreters.
Where only representatives or relatives of disabled persons can understand and use their language, such representatives or relatives may be accepted by Courts to act as interpreters for such disabled persons.

Section 143. Original section/article: 82. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of interpreters 1. Interpreters shall have the following rights and obligations:
a) To be present under courts' summons;
b) To interpret truthfully, objectively and accurately;
c) To request proceeding officers and/or participants to additionally explain their words which need to be interpreted;
d) Not to contact other procedure participants if such contacts affect the truthfulness, objectiveness and accuracy of their interpretation;
dd) To be paid related expenses according to law provisions;
e) To make commitments before Courts to perform their rights and obligations.
2. Interpreters must refuse to take the job or be replaced in the following cases:
a) They fall into one of the cases prescribed in Clauses 1 and 3 of

Section 144. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) They have participated in the proceedings in the capacity as defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of involved parties, witnesses or expert-witnesses in the same case;
c) They have presided over the procedure in the capacity as the Judge, People‟s Jurors, ombudsperson, the Court clerk, the prosecutor or the inspector.

Section 145. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for refusing to give expertise opinions or interpretations or requesting the replacement of expert-witnesses or interpreters. 1. The refusal to give expertise opinions or interpretations or the request for replacement of expert-witnesses or interpreters prior to the opening of Court sessions must be made in writing, clearly stating the reasons therefor.
2. The refusal to give expertise opinions or interpretations or the request for replacement of expert-witnesses or interpreters in Court sessions must be recorded in the minutes of the Court sessions.

Section 146. Original section/article: 84. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Deciding on replacement of expert-witnesses, interpreters 1. Prior to the opening of Court sessions, the replacement of expert-witnesses and/or interpreters shall be decided by courts' Chief Justices.
2. In the Court session, the replacement of the expert-witnesses and/or interpreters shall be decided by the Judges, Trial panels, civil matter-resolving councils after listening to the to be- replaced persons. The trial panels and the civil matter-resolving councils shall discuss matters in the deliberation rooms and make decisions by majority.
Where expert-witnesses or interpreters must be replaced, the Judges, the Trial panels or the Civil matter-resolving council shall issue decisions to postpone the Court sessions. The request for
other expert-witnesses or interpreters shall comply with the provisions of Articles 79 and 81 of this Code.

Section 147. Original section/article: 85. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Representatives 1. The representatives in civil procedures comprise the representatives at law and the proxy representatives. The representatives can be individuals or legal entities as defined in Civil Code
2. The representatives at law as defined in the Civil Code shall be the representatives at law in the civil procedures, except where the representative right is restricted under law provisions.
Agencies, organizations and individuals that initiate lawsuit to protect the legitimate rights and interests of others shall also be the representatives at law of the protected persons in the civil procedures.
3. Employee collective‟s representative organizations shall be lawful representatives of collective of employees initiating lawsuits over labor cases, participate in procedures at Courts when legitimate rights and interests of the collective of employees are infringed upon; employee collective‟s representative organizations are in charge of representing employees in initiating lawsuits over labor cases and participate in procedures when being authorized by employees.
If multiple employees filing the same claim towards the employer of the same enterprise/unit, such employees may authorize a representative from the employee collective‟s representative organization to represent them in initiating lawsuits over labor cases and participate in procedures at the Court.
4. The proxy representatives as defined in the Civil Code shall be the proxy representatives in the civil procedures.
For the divorce, the involved parties must not designate any other persons to participate in the procedure on their behalf. If parents or other relatives of the involved parties petition the Courts to resolve the divorce cases as prescribed in clause 2

Section 148. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Law on marriage and family, they such be the representatives.

Section 149. Original section/article: 86. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of representatives 1. The representatives at law in civil procedures shall exercise the procedural rights and obligations of the involved parties within the scope they represent.
2. The proxy representatives in civil procedures shall exercise the procedural rights and obligations of the involved parties according to the written authorization.

Section 150. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cases of disallowance to act as representatives 1. Persons must not act as representatives at law in the following cases:
a) They are also the involved parties in the same case with the represented persons where their legitimate rights and interests are contrary to those of the represented persons;
b) They are acting as representatives at law in civil procedures for other involved parties whose legitimate rights and interests are contrary to those of the represented persons in the same case.
2. The provisions in Clause 1 of this Article shall also apply to the case of proxy representatives in civil procedures.
3. Officials or employees in the court, procuracy or police sectors must not act as representatives in civil procedures, except for cases where they participate in civil procedures in the capacity as representatives of their agencies or as representatives at law.

Section 151. Original section/article: 88. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appointing representatives in civil procedures 1. While civil procedures are conducted, if any involved party is the minor persons, legally incapacitated persons, persons with limited capacity of exercise, persons with limited cognition or behavior control but has no representative or his/her representative at law falls into one of the cases specified in Clause 1,

Section 152. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court must appoint the representative to participate in the proceedings at courts.
2. In labor cases where involved parties are those specified in clause 1 of this Article or where the employees are minor persons and they have no representatives and the Courts fail to appoint the employee collective‟s representative organization as prescribed in clause 1 of this Article, the Courts shall appoint organization representing collective labor to represent such employees.

Section 153. Original section/article: 89. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of the representation in civil procedures The representatives at law, the proxy representatives in civil procedures shall terminate their representation according to the provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 154. Original section/article: 90. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consequences of the termination of representation in civil procedures 1. In cases where the representation at law terminates while the represented persons have come of age or had their civil act capacity restored such persons shall participate in civil procedures themselves or authorize other persons to participate in civil procedures according to procedures prescribed by this Code.
2. In cases where the proxy representation terminates, the involved parties or their heirs shall participate in civil procedures in person or authorize other persons to participate in the procedures according to the procedures prescribed by this Code.
Chapter VII PROOFS AND EVIDENCES

Section 155. Original section/article: 91. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligations to prove 1. The involved parties who petition the Courts to protect their legitimate rights and interests must collect, introduce and supply the Courts with materials and evidences to prove that such petitions are well-grounded and lawful, except for the following cases:
a) Litigators are customers who are not required to prove faults of organizations and individuals trading goods and/or services Organizations and individuals trading goods/services that are sued shall be obliged to prove that they have no fault that leads to the damage as provided for in the Law on consumers‟ right protection;
b) Involved parties being employees in labor cases fail provide or supply the Courts materials and evidences because such materials/evidences are being under the management and retention of employers, thus the employers shall provide and supply such materials and evidences to the Courts.
If an involved party initiating a lawsuit over the unilateral termination of a labor contract in case where the employer is not allowed to have the right to unilaterally terminate the labor contract or
where the employer fails to enforce labor discipline on the employee as prescribed in legislation on labor, the obligation to prove must be fulfilled by the employer;
c) Other cases where there are other law regulations on obligations to prove.
2. The involved parties that protest against other persons' claims against them must present in writing and must collect, introduce and supply the Courts with materials and evidences to prove such protests.
3. Agencies, organizations and individuals that initiate lawsuit to protect public interests, the State‟s interests, or petition Courts to protect others' legitimate rights and interests must collect, provide and supply the Courts with evidences to prove that their lawsuits or petitions are well- grounded and lawful.
Social organizations that protect interests of the consumers do not have the obligation to prove the faults of organizations/individuals trading goods/services according to the Law on protection of customer‟s rights.
4. If the involved parties that are obliged to introduce evidences to prove but fail to introduce evidences or fail to introduce adequate evidences, the Courts shall resolve the civil cases according to the collected evidences in the dossier about the cases.

Section 156. Original section/article: 92. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Details and facts that are not required to be proved 1. The following details and facts are not required to be proved:
a) Details and facts that are clear and come to everyone's knowledge and are accepted by courts;
b) Details and facts that have been identified in the Court judgments or decisions which are legally effective or in decisions of competent State bodies which have come into force;
c) Details and facts that have been recorded in writing and have been notarized or authenticated. If there is any suspicion of the objectiveness of such details/facts or the objectiveness of the notarized/authenticated writing, the Judge may request the involved parties or the notarizing/certifying agencies to present the original copies.
2. If either involved party acknowledges or does not protest against the details, facts, materials, conclusions issued by specialized agencies and given by the other involved party, the latter is not required to prove them.
3. If an involved party has a representative to participate in the procedures, that representative's acknowledgement shall be regarded as the acknowledgement of such involved party if it does not exceed the representative scope.

Section 157. Original section/article: 93. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Evidences Evidences in civil cases are factual things which are handed to Courts by involved parties, agencies, organizations or individuals or gathered by Courts according to the order and procedures prescribed by this Code and are used by Courts as bases to determine objective details of the cases as well as to determine whether the involved parties' claims or protests are well grounded and lawful or not.

Section 158. Original section/article: 94. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sources of evidence Evidences are gathered from the following sources:
1. Readable, audible or visible materials, electronic data;
2. Exhibits;
3. Involved parties' testimonies;
4. Witnesses' testimonies;
5. Expertising conclusions;
6. On-site appraisal minutes;
7. Property evaluation and price appraisal results;
8. Written records of legal facts or acts that are formulated by functional persons;
9. Notarized/authenticated documents;
10. Other sources prescribed by law.

Section 159. Original section/article: 95. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Identifying evidences 1. Contents-readable materials shall be regarded as evidences if they are originals or copies lawfully notarized or authenticated or supplied and certified by competent agencies or organizations.
2. Audible, visible materials shall be regarded as evidences if they are presented together with documents about the origins of such materials (applicable to materials recorded by the presenting persons themselves) or the documents certified by the one providing such materials for the presenting persons about the origins of those materials or documents related to such audio and/or video recording.
3. Electronic data shall be presented in form of exchange of electronic data, electronic invoices, electronic mails, telegram, telegraphy, facsimile and other similar forms according to legislation on electronic transactions.
4. Exhibits to be regarded as evidences must be the original and related to the cases.
5. Involved parties' testimonies, witnesses' testimonies shall be regarded as evidences if they are recorded in writing or in audio-tapes, audio-discs, or video-tapes or discs or other audio or image recording devices as provided for in Clause 2 of this Article, or are given orally in Court sessions.
6. Expertising conclusions shall be regarded as evidences if the expertise is conducted in accordance with the procedures prescribed by law.
7. On-site appraisal minutes shall be regarded as evidences if the appraisal is conducted in accordance with the procedures prescribed by law.
8. Property evaluation results and price appraisal results shall be regarded as evidences if the evaluation/appraisal is carried out in accordance with the procedures prescribed by law.
9. Written records of legal facts or acts that are formulated on site by functional persons shall be regarded as evidences if the formulation of such records is carried out according to the procedures prescribed by law.
10. Notarized/authenticated documents shall be regarded as evidences if the notarization/authentication is conducted according to the procedures prescribed by law.
11. Other sources prescribed by law shall be determined to be evidences according to requirements and procedures prescribed by law.

Section 160. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hand-over of materials and evidences 1. During the process of resolving civil cases by courts, the involved parties shall have the rights and obligations to hand over materials and evidences to the courts. If the handed materials/evidences are inadequate to form the base for resolution of the matters/cases, the Judge shall request the involved parties to supplement the materials/evidences. If the involved parties fail to hand over the materials/evidences or do not hand over adequately the materials/evidences requested by the Courts, the Courts shall resolve the civil cases pursuant to the materials and evidences handed over by the involved parties and those collected by the Courts according to regulations in

Section 161. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The hand-over of materials/evidences to Courts by involved parties must be recorded in the minutes. The minutes must clearly state the appellations, forms, contents, characteristics of the materials/evidences; the number of copies, the number of pages and time of reception; the signatures or append finger prints of the deliverers, the signatures of the recipients and seals of the courts. The minutes must be made in two copies, one of which shall be incorporated in the civil case files and the other shall be handed to the involved parties handing over the evidences.
3. The materials/evidences submitted in ethnic minority languages or foreign languages to Courts by the involved parties must be enclosed with their Vietnamese translations that are lawfully notarized or authenticated.
4. Deadline for handing over materials and evidences shall be defined by the Judges in charge of the cases provided that such time does not exceed the duration of preparation for adjudication according to first-instance procedures and/or the duration of preparation for resolution of civil matters according to regulations in this Code.
If the Courts request the involve parties to hand over materials and evidences but the involved parties fail to comply with due to good and sufficient reason and supply the required materials and evidences when decisions to bring the cases to trial according to first-instance procedures and the decisions to hold meetings to resolve the civil matters have been issued, such involved parties must prove the reasons for the lateness of supply of such materials/evidences. Regarding materials and evidences which the Courts did not request the involved parties to supplied or materials and evidences that the involved parties cannot know about during the resolution of the cases according to first-instance procedures, the involved parties may supply and present such materials/evidences in first-instance trial sessions or the meetings for resolving civil matters or later procedural stages of the resolution of such civil cases.
5. When materials and evidences hand over to the Courts, there must be their copies sent to other involved parties or lawful representatives or other involved parties; regarding materials and evidences specified in clause 2

Section 162. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code or materials and evidences whose copies cannot be made, written notifications must be sent to other involved parties or lawful representatives of other involved parties.

Section 163. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Verification and collection of evidences 1. Agencies, organizations and individuals may collect materials and evidences themselves by taking the following measures:
a) Collecting readable, audible or visible materials, electronic data;
b) Collecting exhibits;
c) Defining witnesses and collecting confirmation of the witnesses;
d) Requesting the agencies, organizations or individuals to allow the copy or to supply the materials related to the resolution of the matters/cases that are kept or managed by such agencies, organizations or individuals;
dd) Requesting the People‟s Committees of communes to authenticate the signatures of the witnesses;
e) Requesting the Courts to collect materials and evidences, in case the involved parties cannot do it;
g) Requesting the Courts to issue the decisions on request for expertise or property evaluation;
h) Requesting agencies, organizations and individuals to conduct other tasks as prescribed by law.
2. In cases prescribed by this Code, the Courts may take one or a number of the following measures to collect materials and evidences:
a) Taking testimonies of the involved parties, witnesses;
b) Holding confrontations between involved parties and between involved parties and witnesses;
c) Requesting expertises;
d) Conducting property evaluation;
dd) Conducting on-site inspection and appraisal;
e) Entrusting the collection and verification of documents and evidence;
g) Requesting agencies, organizations and individuals to supply readable, audible and visible materials or other exhibits related to the resolution of civil cases;
h) Verifying the presence or absence of the involved parties at the residence;
i) Other measures according to regulations in this Code.
3. When applying the measures specified in Points c, d, dd, e, and, Clause 2 of this Article, the Judges must issue decisions clearly stating the reasons for the application and the request of the courts.
4. In the process of cassation trial, reopening trial, the Ombudspersons may take the measures specified in points a, g and h clause 2 of this Article.
When the ombudspersons take the measures specified in Points g Clause 2 of this Article, the Courts must issue decisions clearly stating the reasons for the application and the request of the courts.
5. Within 03 working days from the day on which the Courts collected the materials/evidences, the Courts shall notify the involved parties of those materials/evidences so that they can exercise their rights and obligations.
6. The procuracy shall collect materials/evidences to ensure the exercise of appeal jurisdiction according to the appellate, cassation trial or reopening trial procedures.

Section 164. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Taking testimonies of involved parties 1. Judges shall take the testimonies of involved parties only when the latter have not yet made the written testimonies or the contents of their written testimonies are insufficient and/or unclear. The involved parties must write the testimonies themselves and sign their names thereon. Where the involved parties cannot write the testimonies by themselves, the Judges shall take their testimonies. The taking of involved parties' testimonies shall only focus on details declared inadequately and/or unclearly by the involved parties. The Judges themselves or the Court clerks shall record the involved parties' testimonies in the minutes. Judges shall take testimonies of the involved parties at the Court offices or outside the Court offices in case of necessity.
2. The minutes recording involved parties' testimonies must be read or heard and signed or fingerprinted by such involved parties. The involved parties may petition amendments and/or supplements to be inscribed in the testimony-recording minutes and sign or fingerprint for certification. The minutes must be signed by the persons who take the testimonies, the minute recorders and affixed with court's seals. If the minutes are made in loose pages, each page must be signed and affixed with seal in both margins. In cases where the minutes of taking the involved parties' testimonies are made outside the Court offices, the testimony taking must be certified by witnesses or by the People's Committees or police offices of communes, wards, townships or by agencies or organizations where the minutes are made.
3. The taking of involved parties' testimonies in one of the cases prescribed in Clauses 4 and 5,

Section 165. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must be carried out in the presence of the lawful representatives of such involved parties.

Section 166. Original section/article: 99. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Taking testimonies of witnesses 1. At the request of the involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, Judges may take testimonies of witnesses at Court offices or outside Court offices.
Before taking testimonies of witnesses, the Judges must provide the witnesses with information about rights and obligations of witnesses and request the witnesses to undertake the truthfulness of their testimonies.
2. The procedures for taking witnesses' testimonies shall be the same as those for taking the involved parties' testimonies provided for in Clause 2,

Section 167. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The taking of testimonies of witnesses aged not full 18 years, or of persons with limited capacity of exercise or persons with limited cognition or behavior control must be carried out in the presence of their representatives at law or guardians.

Section 168. Original section/article: 100. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Confrontation 1. At the request of the involved parties or when contradictions are deemed to have existed in the testimonies of the involved parties or witnesses, Judges may conduct confrontations among the involved parties, between the involved parties and the witnesses or among the witnesses.
2. Confrontations must be recorded in minutes which must be signed by the participants in such confrontations.

Section 169. Original section/article: 101. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
On-site inspection/appraisal 
1. At the request of the involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Judges shall carry out on-site inspections/appraisals in the presence of representatives of People‟s Committees of communes or Police offices of communes/wards/townships or agencies/organizations where exits the objects which need to be inspected/appraised; the on-site inspections/appraisals must be notified in advance so that the involved parties know and witness such inspections/appraisals.
2. On-site inspections/appraisals must be recorded in minutes. The minutes must clearly state the inspection/appraisal results, clearly describe the sites, contain the signatures of the persons that conduct the inspections/appraisals and the signatures or fingerprints of the involved parties if they are present, of the representatives of the commune-level People's Committees or Police offices of communes/wards/townships or agencies/organizations where exist the to be- inspected/appraised objects and others that are invited to participate in the inspections/appraisals. After completing the minutes, the persons that conduct the inspections/appraisals must request the representatives of the commune-level People's Committees or Police offices of communes/wards/townships or agencies/organizations where exist the objects which need to be inspected/appraised to sign and seal for certification.
3. Any obstruction of the inspection/appraisal is forbidden.
4. If there is any obstruction of the on-site inspection/appraisal, the Judge may request the assistance of People‟s Committees of communes or Police offices of communes/wards/townships exist the objects subject to on-site inspection/appraisal.

Section 170. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Request for expertise 1. Involved parties may petition Courts to request expertise or request expertise themselves if the involved parties‟ applications for referenda for expertise have been rejected by the Courts. The right to apply for expertise shall be exercised before the Courts issued decisions to bring the cases to trial according to first-instance procedures or decisions to hold the meetings for resolving civil matters.
2. At the request of involved parties of when it is deemed necessary, Judges shall decide to conduct referenda for expertise. In decisions to request an expertise, names and addresses of expert-witnesses, objects of expertise, expertise matters and requests that need conclusions of expert-witnesses must be specified.
3. If the expertising conclusions are considered unsatisfactory or contra to law provisions, then according to the petitions of involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Courts shall request the expert-witnesses to explain the expertising conclusions, summon the expert witnesses to Court sessions/meetings to directly present about necessary information.
4. At the request of involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Courts shall make decisions to conduct referenda for additional expertises if the expertising conclusions are not satisfactory or when new issues relating to details of the cases that have been given expertising conclusions formerly.
5. The re-expertise shall be conducted if there are grounds for presuming that the initial expertise conclusions are inexact and contrary to law or of special cases according to decisions of Chairpersons of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and/or Chief Justices of the Supreme People‟s Court according to provisions of the Law on judicial expertise.

Section 171. Original section/article: 103. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Requesting expertise of evidences denounced to be forgery 
1. Where evidences are denounced to be forgery, the suppliers of such evidences may withdraw them. If not, the denouncers may request the courts, or the Courts decide themselves, to solicit expertises as provided for in

Section 172. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Where the evidence forgery shows criminal signs, the Courts shall transfer the relevant materials and evidences to the competent criminal investigation bodies for consideration according to regulations in laws on criminal procedures.
3. The suppliers of evidences that are concluded to be forged evidences must compensate for damage if the forgery of such evidences causes damage to others and must pay the cost of expertise if the Court decides to request expertise.

Section 173. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Property evaluation and price appraisal 1. Involved parties may provide the price of the properties that are being in dispute or reach agreement about the price of the properties that are being in dispute.
2. The parties may reach agreement on the selection of property appraisal organizations to conduct the evaluation of properties and provide the price evaluation results for the Courts.
Properly price appraisal shall be carried out under the law on property price appraisal.
3. Courts shall make decisions on property price assessment and set up Price Assessment Councils in the following cases:
a) At the request of involved parties;
b) Involved parties failed to reach agreement about selection of price assessment organizations or offered prices were different or agreement about prices has not been reached;
c) Parties reach agreements with each other or with price assessment councils the prices which are lower than the market prices of the area where the properties are located at the time of price assessment to evade fulfilling obligations to the State or the third parties or there are grounds proving that the price assessment organizations commit violations against law provisions when conducting price assessment.
4. Procedures for establishment of Price Assessment Council and procedures for price assessment:
a) Price Assessment Councils shall be established by Courts and shall consist of the representatives of financial agencies as the Chairpersons and representatives of relevant specialized agencies as members. Persons who have conducted procedures in such cases and persons specified in

Section 174. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must not be members of Price Assessment Councils.
Price Assessment Councils shall conduct assessment only when no members of the Councils are absent. When it is necessary, representatives of People‟s Committees of communes where the to be-assessed properties are located shall be invited to witness the assessment. Involved parties shall be priorly notified of time and place of price assessment, shall be entitled to attend and express opinions about the price assessment. Price Assessment Councils shall be entitled to make decisions on prices of the properties which are assessed;
b) Financial agencies and specialized agencies which are relevant shall be responsible for assigning persons to be members of Price Assessment Councils and enable them to fulfill tasks. Persons assigned to be members of Price Assessment Councils shall participate fully the
assessment. If financial agencies and/or specialized agencies fail to assign persons to be members of Price Assessment Councils, Courts shall request competent immediate management agencies to direct financial agencies and specialized agencies to fulfill their requests. If persons who are assigned to be members of Prices Assessment Councils are absent without plausible reasons, Courts shall request heads of agencies having assigned such persons shall consider responsibility and appoint replacements and notify the Courts so that the price assessment could be conducted;
c) Price assessment must be recorded into minutes where opinions of each present members and involved parties shall be specified. Decisions of Price Assessment Councils must be approved by more than half of their members. Members of Price Assessment Councils, involved parties and witnesses shall append signatures or fingerprints to the minutes.
5. The re-assessment of property prices shall be conducted when there are grounds for presuming that the results of the first assessment are inexact or unconformable with market prices of places where the properties are located at the time of processing civil lawsuits.

Section 175. Original section/article: 105. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Entrusting the collection of evidences 1. In the course of resolving civil cases, a Court may issue a decision to entrust another Court or a competent agency defined in Clause 4 of this Article to take the testimonies of involved parties, and/or witnesses, to conduct on-site appraisals or property evaluations or other measures to gather evidences and to verify details of the civil cases.
2. The entrustment decisions must clearly state the names and addresses of the plaintiffs and the defendants, the disputed relationship and specific entrusted jobs to collect of evidences.
3. The Court that receives the entrustment decision shall have the responsibility to perform the specific assignments within 1 month from the day on which the entrustment decision is received and shall notify in writing the results to the Court that has issued the entrustment decision. In cases where it cannot realize the specific assignments, it must send a written notification of such failure stating clearly the reasons therefor to the Court that has issued the entrustment decision.
4. If the collection of evidences must be carried out overseas, the Courts shall conduct the entrustment procedures through Vietnamese competent agencies or competent agencies of foreign countries that sign International treaty with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
5. If the Courts fail to conduct the entrustment as prescribed in clauses 3 and 4 of this Article or the Courts have conducted the entrustment but the results are not sent, the Courts shall lawsuit settlement pursuant to the evidences that have filed in the civil lawsuit dossier.

Section 176. Original section/article: 106. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Requesting agencies, organizations and individuals to supply materials and evidences 1. Involved parties may request agencies, organizations and individuals to supply materials and evidences. Any involved parties requesting agencies, organizations and individuals to supply materials and/or evidences shall make a written application clearly stating the to be-supplied materials/evidences; reasons for supply; full names and addresses of individuals, names and addresses of agencies/organizations that are managing or keeping the to be-supplied materials/evidences.
Agencies, organizations or individuals shall supply materials and evidences to involved parties within 15 days from the day on which the requests are received; otherwise, written responses containing explanation shall be made and sent to the requesters.
2. Where the involved parties that have applied necessary measures to gather evidences still fail to gather by themselves, they may request the Courts to issue decision requesting agencies, organizations or individuals keeping or managing the materials/evidences to supply those materials/evidences or request the Courts to collect materials/evidences in order to ensure the proper resolution of civil cases.
The involved parties that request the Courts to gather materials/evidences shall make written applications clearly stating the point(s) to be proved, the evidence to be gathered, the reasons why they cannot gather the evidences by themselves; full names and addresses of the individuals, agencies or organizations that are managing or keeping the evidences which need to be collected.
3. When there are requests of involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Courts shall issue decisions requesting agencies, organizations and individuals that are managing or keeping the materials/evidences to supply those materials/evidences to the Courts.
Agencies, organizations and individuals managing or keeping the materials/evidences have the responsibility to supply adequately materials and evidences at the request of the Courts within 15 days from the day on which the requests are received; after such time limit, if such agencies, organizations or individuals fail to supply adequately materials and evidences at the request of the Courts, they shall make written responses containing explanation. Any agencies, organizations or individuals failing to comply with the requests of the Courts without good and sufficient reasons shall be administratively sanctioned or shall face criminal prosecution as prescribed by law, depending on nature and severity of the violations. The administrative penalties or criminal prosecution as prescribed by law imposed on the agencies, organizations or individuals shall not mean the exemption from supply of materials/evidences to the Courts.
4. If the procuracies request the materials/evidences, the agencies, organizations and individuals shall comply with regulations in clause 3 of this Article.

Section 177. Original section/article: 107. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preserving materials and evidences 1. If materials/evidences have been handed over at courts, the preservation of such materials/evidences shall rest with the courts.
2. If materials/evidences cannot be handed over at courts, the preservation of such materials/evidences shall rest with the materials/evidence keepers.
3. Where it is necessary to hand over materials/evidences to the third persons for preservation, Judges shall issue decisions and make minutes of the hand-over to those persons for preservation. The persons undertaking the preservation must sign the minutes, be entitled to remuneration and bear the responsibility for preserving such materials/evidences as prescribed by law.
4. Any destruction of materials/evidences shall be strictly forbidden.

Section 178. Original section/article: 108. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Assessing evidences 1. The assessment of evidences must be objective, comprehensive, adequate and accurate.
2. Courts must assess evidences one by one, the link between evidences and determine the lawfulness, the relevance and the proving capacity of every evidence.

Section 179. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Disclosing and using materials and evidences 1. Any evidence shall be publicly and equally disclosed and used, except for cases specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. Courts shall not disclose material/evidence contents related to State secrets, fine customs and practices of the nation, professional secrets, business secrets, family secrets or secrets of individuals' private lives at the legitimate requests of the involved parties; however, Courts shall notify the involved parties of the materials/evidences that must not be disclosed.
3. Proceeding officers and procedure participants must keep secret, as provided for by law, materials and evidences specified in Clause 2 of this Article.

Section 180. Original section/article: 110. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Protecting evidences 1. Where evidences are being destroyed or are in danger of being destroyed or are hard to be gathered in the future, the involved parties may request the Courts to decide to apply necessary measures to preserve the evidences. The requests of the involved parties must be made in writing. The Courts may decide to apply one or several of the measures including sealing, keeping, photographing, audio-recording, video-recording, restoration, examination, minutes making and other measures.
2. Where witnesses are cheated, threatened, compelled or bought off for the purpose of not supplying evidences or supplying untruthful evidences, the Courts shall have the right to issue decisions to force the persons who have committed acts of cheating, threatening, compelling or buying off the witnesses to terminate their acts. Where the acts show criminal signs, the Courts shall request procuracies to examine the penal liability.
Chapter VIII PROVISIONAL EMERGENCY MEASURES

Section 181. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to petition the application of provisional emergency measures 1. During the resolution of civil lawsuits, the involved parties or their lawful representatives or agencies, organizations or individuals instituting the cases defined in

Section 182. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code may petition the Courts handling such cases to apply one or more provisional emergency measures provided for in

Section 183. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code to provisionally deal with the urgent petitions of the involved parties, to protect lives, health, properties, gather and protect evidences, preserving their current conditions in order to avoid irrecoverable damage and to ensure the lawsuit settlement or judgment execution.
2. In urgent cases where it is necessary to immediately protect evidences or to prevent possible serious consequences, relevant agencies, organizations and individuals may petition the competent Courts to issue decisions to apply provisional emergency measures prescribed in

Section 184. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, simultaneously with the submission of applications to initiate the lawsuits to such courts.
3. The Courts shall issue decisions on their own to apply the provisional emergency measures only in the cases provided for in

Section 185. Original section/article: 112. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence to decide on the application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures 1. Before the opening of a Court session, the application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures shall be considered and decided by a Judge.
2. In the Court sessions, the application, change, cancellation of provisional emergency measures shall be considered and decided by the trial panels.

Section 186. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Responsibilities for improper application of provisional emergency measures 1. The persons who petition the Courts to apply provisional emergency measures must be responsible before law for their petitions; Where the petitions for application of provisional emergency measures are made improperly thus causing damage to the persons against whom the provisional emergency measures are applied or to the third persons, compensation must be made.
2. If the Courts apply the provisional emergency measures improperly, thus causing damage to those subject to such measures or to the third persons, the Courts shall have to pay compensation therefor in the following cases:
a) The Courts have applied the provisional emergency measures on their own;
b) The Courts have applied other provisional emergency measures than those petitioned by agencies/organizations/individuals;
c) The Courts have applied the provisional emergency measures beyond the petitions of agencies, organizations and individuals;
d) The Courts have applied the provisional emergency measures unconformably with the time limit prescribed by law or the Courts fail to apply the provisional emergency measures without good and sufficient reasons.
3. The compensation specified in clause 2 of this Article shall comply with regulations in the Law on State compensation liability.

Section 187. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Provisional emergency measures 1. Sending minor persons, legally incapacitated persons, person with limited cognition or behavior control to individuals or organizations for looking after, nurturing, taking care of and educating.
2. Forcing the prior performance of part of the alimony obligation.
3. Forcing the prior performance of part of the obligation to compensate for damage to individuals whose lives and/or health have been infringed upon.
4. Forcing the employers to provide the employees with advance wages, health insurance, social insurance, treatment cost for occupational accidents or occupational diseases or compensations, allowances for occupational accidents or occupational diseases.
5. Suspending the execution of decisions on unilateral termination of labor contract or decisions on dismissal of employees.
6. Distraining the disputed properties.
7. Prohibiting the transfer of property right over the disputed properties.
8. Prohibiting the change of the current conditions of disputed properties.
9. Permitting the harvesting, sale of subsidiary food crops or other products, commodities.
10. Freezing accounts at banks or other credit institutions, State treasury; freezing properties at places of their deposit.
11. Freezing properties of the obligor.
12. Prohibiting involved parties from performing, or forcing them to perform certain acts.
13. Prohibiting the obligors from leaving Vietnam.
14. Prohibiting the contact with victims of family violence.
15. Suspending the bid closing and activities related to bidding.
16. Arresting aircrafts or ships to ensure the lawsuit settlement.
17. Other provisional emergency measures provided for by law.

Section 188. Original section/article: 115. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sending minor persons, legally incapacitated persons, person with limited cognition or behavior control to individuals or organizations for looking after, nurturing, taking care of and educating. The sending of minor persons, legally incapacitated persons, person with limited cognition or behavior control to individuals or organizations for looking after, nurturing, taking care of and educating shall be applied if the resolution of cases involves such persons who have no guardians.
The sending of minors who are from full 7 years old or elder shall be carried out after considering their expectation.

Section 189. Original section/article: 116. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forced prior-performance of part of the alimony obligation The forced prior-performance of part of the alimony obligation shall be applied if the resolution of cases is related to alimony petitions which are deemed well-grounded and the failure to immediately perform in advance part of the alimony obligation shall affect the health and/or life of the persons entitled to the alimony.

Section 190. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forced prior-performance of part of the obligation to pay compensation for damage to health or life Forced prior-performance of part of the obligation to pay compensation for damage to health or life shall be applied if the case resolution is related to petitions for compensation for damage to health or life.

Section 191. Original section/article: 118. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forcing of the employers to provide the employees with advance wages, health insurance, social insurance, treatment cost for occupational accidents or occupational diseases or compensations, allowances for occupational accidents or occupational diseases Forcing the employers to provide the employees with advance wages, health insurance, social insurance, treatment cost for occupational accidents or occupational diseases or compensations, allowances for occupational accidents or occupational diseases shall be applied to protect the lawful rights and obligations of employees pertaining to wages, insurance, compensation, allowances, healthcare services as prescribed by law.

Section 192. Original section/article: 119. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Suspending the execution of decisions on unilateral termination of labor contract or decisions on dismissal of employees The suspension of the execution of decisions on unilateral termination of labor contract or decisions on dismissal of employees shall be applied if the lawsuit settlement related to the unilateral termination of labor contract, dismissal of employees is of cases the employers are not allowed to execute the right to unilaterally terminate the labor contract or dismiss the employees as prescribed by the legislation on labor.

Section 193. Original section/article: 120. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Distraining disputed properties 1. The distraint of disputed properties shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the keepers of the disputed properties are committing acts of dispersing or destroying the properties.
2. The distrained properties may be kept and preserved at the offices of the judgment-executing bodies or assigned in minutes to one involved party or the third person for management until a decision of the Court is issued.

Section 194. Original section/article: 121. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prohibiting the transfer of property right over disputed properties. The prohibition of transfer of property right over disputed properties shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the persons possessing or keeping the disputed properties are committing acts of transferring the property right over the disputed properties to other persons.

Section 195. Original section/article: 122. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prohibiting the change of existing conditions of disputed properties The prohibition to change the existing conditions of disputed properties shall apply if in the process of settling cases there are grounds showing that the persons possessing or keeping the disputed properties are committing acts of disassembly, assembly, expansion or other acts, thus changing the existing conditions of such properties.

Section 196. Original section/article: 123. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Permitting to harvest and sell subsidiary food crops or other products or commodities The permission to harvest and sell subsidiary food crops or other products and commodities shall be applied if in the course of settling cases, disputed properties are related to subsidiary food crops or other products, commodities, which are in the period of harvesting or cannot be preserved for a long time.

Section 197. Original section/article: 124. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Freezing accounts at banks, other credit institutions, State Treasury Freezing accounts at banks, other credit institutions, State Treasury shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the obligors have accounts at banks, other credit institutions or State Treasury and the application of this measure is necessary to ensure the settlement of the cases or to ensure the judgment enforcement.

Section 198. Original section/article: 125. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Freezing properties at depositories Freezing properties at depositories shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the obligors have their properties deposited and the application of this measure is necessary to ensure the settlement of the cases or to ensure the judgment enforcement.

Section 199. Original section/article: 126. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Freezing the obligors' properties 
Freezing the obligors' properties shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the obligors have such properties and the application of this measure is necessary to ensure the settlement of the cases or to ensure the judgment enforcement.

Section 200. Original section/article: 127. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prohibiting or forcing the performance of certain acts Prohibiting or forcing the performance of certain acts shall be applied if in the course of settling cases there are grounds showing that the non-performance or performance of certain acts by involved parties or agencies, organizations and/or individuals affects the case resolution or the legitimate rights and interests of others that are involved in the cases being resolved by courts.

Section 201. Original section/article: 128. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prohibiting the obligors from leaving Vietnam Prohibiting the obligors from leaving Vietnam shall be applied if there are grounds showing that the lawsuit settlement is related to their obligations towards the State or other agencies, organizations and/or individuals and their leaving from Vietnam affects the case resolution, the interests of the State, legitimate rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals or to ensure the judgment enforcement.

Section 202. Original section/article: 129. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prohibiting the contact with victims of family violence Prohibiting the contact with victims of family violence shall be applied if it is necessary for protecting lives, health and honor of the victims of family violence as prescribed in the Law on family violence prevention and control.

Section 203. Original section/article: 130. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Suspending the bid closing and activities related to bidding The suspension of bid closing, approval for shortlists and/or results of selection of contractors and investors, contract conclusion or contract execution shall be applied if the course of case resolution shows that the application of such measures is necessary for ensuring the case resolution conformable to the law provisions.

Section 204. Original section/article: 131. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Arresting aircrafts or seagoing ships to ensure the case resolution 1. Courts shall make decisions on application of provisional emergency measures to ensure the resolution of civil lawsuits against which lawsuits were initiated by owners of aircrafts or a creditor, if the aircraft is an asset to secure a debt, or persons who are damaged by flying aircrafts or persons with relevant rights and interests towards aircrafts according to law regulations on Vietnamese civil aviation.
2. Courts shall make decisions on the application of provisional emergency measures to arrest ships in the following cases:
a) Persons who initiate lawsuits against civil lawsuits apply for arrest of seagoing ships to ensure the settlement of their marine complaints;
b) Owners of ships are persons who have obligation about properties in the cases being in settle and are still ships‟ owners at the time of application of provisional emergency measures to arrest ships;
c) Demise charterers, time charterers, voyage charterers or ship operators are person having obligations about properties in civil lawsuits arising from marine complaints prescribed in Vietnam Marine Code and are still demise charterers, time charterers, voyage charterers or ship
operators or ship owners at the time of application of provisional emergency measures to arrest seagoing ships;
d) Disputes are being settled in the cases arising on the basis of the mortage of such seagoing ships;
dd) Disputes are being settled in cases related to the ownership or the right of possession of such seagoing ships.
3. Procedures for arresting aircrafts or seagoing ships shall comply with law regulations on arrest of aircrafts/seagoing ships.

Section 205. Original section/article: 132. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Other provisional emergency measures Apart from provisional emergency measures specified in clause 1 to clause 16

Section 206. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts shall resolve the petitions for application of other provisional emergency measures prescribed in other laws.

Section 207. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for application of provisional emergency measures 1. Any person who petitions the Court to apply a provisional emergency measure must make an application and send it to a competent court. Such application must contain the following principal details:
a) Date of the application;
b) Name, address; phone number, fax, e-mail address (if any) of the petitioner for the application of provisional emergency measures;
c) Name, address; phone number, fax, e-mail address (if any) of the persons subject to the application of provisional emergency measures;
d) Summarized contents of the dispute or act of infringing upon the legitimate rights and interests of his/her own;
dd) Reasons for the application of the provisional emergency measures;
e) Provisional emergency measures to be applied and specific requirements.
Depending on the requests for application of provisional emergency measures, the petitioners must provide the Courts with evidences to prove the necessity to apply such provisional emergency measures.
2. The petition for application of provisional emergency measures in cases specified in clause 1

Section 208. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall be resolved as follows:
a) If the Court receives the application before the court session is opened, the Judge assigned to resolve the case shall consider resolving. Within 03 working days from the day on which the applications are received, if the petitioners do not have to apply security measures or immediately after such persons apply the security measures prescribed in

Section 209. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Judges must issue decisions to apply the provisional emergency measures; if the applications are rejected, the Judges shall send the petitioners written notification containing explanation;
b) If the trial panels receive the applications at the Court sessions, the trial panels shall consider, discuss and resolve the petitions at the courtrooms. If the application is accepted, the trial panels
shall issue the decisions to apply the provisional emergency measures immediately or when the petitioners have applied the security measures prescribed in

Section 210. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. The security measures shall be applied since the trial panel has issued the decisions to force the application of security measures but the petitioner must present evidences about the completion of application of security measures before the trial panel members get in the deliberation room; if the petition for application of provisional emergency measures is rejected, the trial panel shall immediately announce the refusal and recorded it to the Court minute.
3. Regarding petitions for application of provisional emergency measures specified in clause 2

Section 211. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, when the written petitions enclosed with petitions and evidences have been received, Chief Justices of the Courts shall immediately assign Judges to solve the petitions. Within 48 hours since a petition is received, the Judge shall consider and make decision to apply provisional emergency measures; if the petition is rejected, the Judge shall issue a written notification containing explanation for the petitioner.
4. For cases where provisional emergency measures specified in clauses 10 and 11

Section 212. Original section/article: 144. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are applied, only accounts, properties valuing equivalent to financial obligations that the persons liable to provisional emergency measures are obliged to fulfill shall be blockaded.

Section 213. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recommendation for application of provisional emergency measures of agencies, organizations and individuals initiating lawsuits to protect public interests, State interests and lawful rights and interests of other people Agencies, organizations and individuals initiating lawsuits specified in

Section 214. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall recommend the Courts to apply provisional emergency measures; such recommendation shall contain the reasons; provisional emergency measures which should be applied; names and addresses of persons lawful rights and interests which need to be protected; names and addresses of persons on whom provisional emergency measures should be applied; summaries of disputes, infringement upon lawful rights and interests of involved parties and evidences proving that their recommendations are grounded and lawful.

Section 215. Original section/article: 135. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Courts make decisions on application of provisional emergency measures by themselves Courts shall make decisions on application of provisional emergency measures specified in clauses 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5

Section 216. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code by themselves in cases where the involved parties do not petition the application of provisional emergency measures.

Section 217. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forcible application of security measures 1. The persons who petition the Courts to apply one of the provisional emergency measures prescribed in Clauses 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15 and 16

Section 218. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must submit to the Courts guarantee invoices deposit a money sum, precious metals, precious stones or valuable papers as determined by the courts, which must be equivalent to the property obligation to be performed by the obligor in order to protect the interests of the persons against whom the provisional emergency measures are applied and to prevent the abuse of right to petition the application of the provisional emergency measures by petitioners.
For cases prescribed in Clause 2,

Section 219. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the time-limit for application of security measures provided for in this clause must not exceed 48 hours since the application are submitted.
2. Sums of money, precious metals, gemstones or valuable papers must be put into escrow account at banks of where the offices of the Courts making decisions to apply provisional emergency measures are located within the time defined by the Courts.
If the security measures are conducted on holidays or on days-off, the sums of money subject to security measures shall be retained at the Courts. The Courts shall conduct submitting and receiving procedures and shall immediately send such amount to the banks on the next working days.

Section 220. Original section/article: 137. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Changing, additionally applying provisional emergency measures When the provisional emergency measures being applied are deemed no longer suitable and need to be changed or other provisional emergency measures should be additionally applied, the procedures for changing the provisional emergency measures or additionally applying other provisional emergency measures shall comply with the provision in

Section 221. Original section/article: 138. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cancellation of the application of provisional emergency measures 1. The Courts shall immediately issue decisions to cancel the applied provisional emergency measures in one of the following cases:
a) It is so petitioned by the persons who have petitioned the application of provisional emergency measures;
b) The persons who are obliged to execute the decisions on application of provisional emergency measures shall deposit property as security or other persons apply measures to secure the performance of the obligations toward the petitioners;
c) Civil obligations of the obligor terminate as provided for in the Civil Code;
d) The resolution of the cases is terminated according to regulations in this Code;
dd) The decisions on application of provisional emergency measures are unconformable to the provisions of this Code;
e) The grounds for application of the provisional emergency measures are no longer existed;
g) The cases have been resolved with judgments/decisions of the Courts that have been effective;
h) The Courts have returned the lawsuit petitions as prescribed in this Code.
2. In case of canceling the application of provisional emergency measures, the Courts must consider and permit the persons who have petitioned the application of provisional emergency measures to receive back the security invoices which are secured with assets of banks or other credit organizations security money sums, precious metals, precious stones or valuable papers prescribed in

Section 222. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, except for the cases specified in Clause 1,

Section 223. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Procedures for issuance of decisions on cancelation of application of provisional emergency measures shall comply with regulations in

Section 224. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If there are effective judgments/decisions of the Courts, the resolution of petitions for cancelation of decisions on application of provisional emergency measures shall be resolved by a Judge assigned by the Chief Justice of the Courts having issued the decisions on application of provisional emergency measures.

Section 225. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect of decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures 1. Decisions on application, change, or cancellation of provisional emergency measures shall take immediate implementation effect.
2. The Courts must issue or send decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures to the petitioners, the persons subject to the application thereof, and relevant agencies, organizations and individuals and competent civil judgment-executing bodies and procuracies of the same level immediately after the issuance of such decisions.

Section 226. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Complaint, recommendations about decisions on application, change or cancellation or non-application, non-change, non-cancellation of provisional emergency measures The involved parties shall have the right to complain, and the procuracies shall have the right to submit recommendations to the Chief Justices of Courts which are settling cases about decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures, or about the non- issuance of such decisions by Judges. The time limit for lodging a complaint or recommendation is 03 working days from the day on which the decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures or the replies of Judges about the non-issuance of decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures are received.

Section 227. Original section/article: 141. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Complaint, recommendations about decisions on application, change or cancellation or non-application, non-change, non-cancellation of provisional emergency measures 1. The Chief Justices of Courts must consider and settle complaints and recommendations prescribed in

Section 228. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code within 03 working days from the day on which the complaints or recommendations are received.
2. The Chief Justices' decisions on settlement of complaints, recommendations shall be the final ones and must be issued or sent immediately according to the provisions of Clause 2,

Section 229. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. In Court sessions, the settlement of complaints or recommendations falls within the jurisdiction of the trial panels. The trial panels' decisions on settlement of complaints or recommendations shall be the final ones.

Section 230. Original section/article: 142. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Execution of decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures 1. The decisions on application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures shall be executed in accordance with law regulations on civil judgment execution.
2. If the decisions on application of provisional emergency measures involve properties with registration of right to ownership and/or right to enjoyment, the involved parties are obliged to submit copies of the decisions to the agencies managing the registration of right to ownership and/or right to enjoyment.
Chapter IX COURT FEES, CHARGES AND OTHER PROCEDURAL EXPENSES

Section 231. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Court FEES AND CHARGES

Section 232. Original section/article: 143. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Court fee advance, charge advance; Court fees and charges 1. Court fee advances shall include first-instance Court fee advances and appellate Court fee advances.
2. Court fees shall include first-instance Court fees and appellate Court fees.
3. Charge advances for civil matter resolution shall include first-instance charge advances and appellate charge advances.
4. Charges shall include charges for providing copies of judgments, decisions or other documents of courts, charges for submitting applications requesting Courts to settle civil matters, charges for settlement of civil matters and other charges stipulated by law.

Section 233. Original section/article: 144. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of collected Court fee advance, charge advance, Court fees and charges 1. All collected Court fees and charges must be fully and timely remitted into the State budget at the State Treasury.
2. Court fee advance and charge advance shall be submitted to the competent judgment- executing agencies for deposit in custody accounts opened at the State Treasury, and shall be withdrawn for judgment execution under Court decisions.
3. If the persons who have advanced Court fees or charges must bear such fees and/or charges, immediately after the Court judgments or decisions come into effect, the collected advance amounts must be remitted into the State budget.
In cases where the persons who have advanced Court fees and/or charges are entitled to partial or full reimbursement of the amounts they have paid under Court judgments or decisions, the judgment-executing agencies which have collected the Court fee advances or charge advances must carry out procedures to return the money to them.
4. In cases where the resolution of the civil cases is suspended, the already advanced Court fees and/or advanced charges shall be disposed when the resolution of the civil cases resumes.

Section 234. Original section/article: 145. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Regime of collection and expenditure of Court fee advances, charge advances, Court fees and charges The collection of Court fee advances and Court fees, charge advances and Court charges; and the payment of Court fee advances, charge advances must comply with law provisions.

Section 235. Original section/article: 146. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to advance Court fees and advance charges 1. The plaintiffs, the defendants who have made counter-claims against the plaintiffs and the persons with related rights and interests who have made independent claims in civil lawsuits must advance first-instance Court fees; the persons who have made appeals must advance appellate Court fees, except for cases where they are exempted from, or do not have to pay Court fee advances.
2. Persons who have submitted applications petitioning Courts to settle civil matters must advance charges for the resolution of such civil matters, except for cases where they are exempt from, or do not have to pay the charge advances.
Regarding persons applying for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorce, husbands and wives may agree about the payment of charge advances, except for cases where they are exempt from, or do not have to pay the charge advances according to law provisions. If spouses fail to agree the payment of charge advance, each of them shall pay a half of the charge advance.

Section 236. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear first-instance Court fees 1. The involved parties must bear the first-instance Court fees if their petitions are not accepted by courts, except for cases where they are exempted from, or do not have to pay such fees.
2. In cases where the involved parties cannot themselves determine their portions in the common properties and petition the Courts to settle the division of the common properties, each party must bear the first-instance Court fee corresponding to the value of the property portion she/he enjoys.
3. Prior to the opening of Court sessions, the Courts shall conduct mediations; if the involved parties have reached mutual agreement on the resolution of cases, they must bear 50% of the first-instance Court fee level prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.
4. The plaintiffs in divorce cases must pay first-instance Court fees, without depending on whether the Courts accept their petitions or not. In cases where both parties voluntarily agree on their divorce, each involved party must bear half of the first-instance Court fees.
5. If an involved party to a case is exempted from the first-instance Court fee, then the other involved party shall still have to pay the first-instance Court fee payable under Clauses 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Article.
6. Where the case is suspended, the obligation to pay first-instance Court fee shall be decided when the resolution of the case resumes in accordance with the provisions in this Article.

Section 237. Original section/article: 148. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear first-instance Court fees 1. The appellant must pay the appellate Court fees, if the appealed first-instance judgments or decision are upheld by the Courts of appeal, except for cases where the appellants are exempted from, or do not have to pay such fees.
2. The appellants shall not pay the appellate Court fees, if the appealed first-instance judgments or decisions are amended by the Courts of appeal. The Courts of appeal must re-determine the obligation to bear first-instance Court fees as provided for in

Section 238. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Where the Courts of appeal abrogate the appealed first-instance judgments/decisions for re- trial under first-instance procedure, the appellants shall not be obliged to bear the appellate Court fees. The obligation to bear Court fees shall be re-determined when the cases are retried under first-instance procedure.

Section 239. Original section/article: 149. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear charges 1. The obligation to bear charges shall be determined depending on specific types of civil matters and shall be specified in law.
2. Regarding persons applying for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces, husbands and wives may agree about the payment
of charges, except for cases where they are exempt from, or do not have to pay the charges according to law provisions.
If spouses fail to agree the payment of charge, each of them shall pay a half of the charge.

Section 240. Original section/article: 150. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Specific regulations on Court fees and charges Pursuant to the provisions of the Law on fees and charges and provisions of this Code, the Standing committee of the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam shall issue specific regulations on Court fees and charges; rates of Court fees and charges for specific matters/cases; cases eligible for exemption or reduction from Court fees and charges, cases not subject to paying Court fees and charges; regulations on collection, payment, management and use of Court fees and charges.

Section 241. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
OTHER PROCEDURAL EXPENSES

Section 242. Original section/article: 151. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Overseas request for judicial assistance expense advance, overseas request for judicial assistance expense 1. Overseas request for judicial assistance means a sum of money temporarily calculated by the Court to be pay for request for judicial assistance upon the collection and supply of evidences or delivery of papers, documents and materials and the summoning of witnesses or expert witnesses and requests for judicial assistance related to the settlement of a civil case.
2. Overseas request for judicial assistance expense means the necessary and reasonable sum of money to be paid for the performance of request for judicial assistance according to law provisions of Vietnam and the country requested for request for judicial assistance.

Section 243. Original section/article: 152. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to pay overseas request for judicial assistance expense advance 1. Plaintiffs or appellants according to appellate procedures or other involved parties in civil lawsuits must pay the overseas request for judicial assistance expense advance if their requests results in the overseas request for judicial assistance.
2. Petitioners for settlement of civil matters or appellants according to appellate procedures or other involved parties in civil matters must pay the overseas request for judicial assistance expense advance if their requests results in the overseas request for judicial assistance.

Section 244. Original section/article: 153. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear overseas request for judicial assistance expense Unless otherwise agreed by involved parties or provided for by laws, the obligation to bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense shall be determined as follows:
1. Involved parties must bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense if their requests for settlement of cases are rejected by the Courts;
2. In case where the Court is requested to divide a common property, each person who has received a share from such property must bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense amount proportionate to the value of the property share he/she has received;
3. In divorce cases, plaintiffs must pay the overseas request for judicial assistance expense, regardless of whether the Courts accept their requests or not. In cases where both parties voluntarily agree on their divorce, each involved party must bear half of the overseas request for judicial assistance expense;
4. If the settlement of the cases is suspended as prescribed in point c clause 1

Section 245. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the plaintiffs must bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense.
If the settlement of the cases is suspended as prescribed in point b clause 1

Section 246. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the appellants according to appellate procedures must bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense;
5. For other cases where the settlement is suspended according to regulations of this Code, persons who request for overseas request for judicial assistance must bear the overseas request for judicial assistance expense.

Section 247. Original section/article: 154. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of overseas request for judicial assistance expense advance 1. If the person who has paid the request for judicial assistance advance is not liable for the request for judicial assistance expense, the person who has to bear such expense under the decision of the Court shall refund such advance to the former.
2. In cases where the person who has paid the request for judicial assistance expense advance is liable for the request for judicial assistance expense and the advance that has been paid is smaller than the actual request for judicial assistance expense, such person must pay the deficit; if the paid advance is bigger than the actual request for judicial assistance expense, such person shall receive the surplus according to the court's decision.

Section 248. Original section/article: 155. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
On-site inspection/appraisal expense advance, on-site inspection/appraisal expense 1. On-site inspection/appraisal expense advance means a sum of money that is estimated by the Court to be paid for the on-site inspection/appraisal.
2. On-site inspection/appraisal expense means a necessary and reasonable sum of money to be paid for the on-site inspection/appraisal pursuant to law provisions.

Section 249. Original section/article: 156. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to pay on-site inspection/appraisal expense advance 1. Persons who request the Courts to conduct on-site inspection/appraisal must pay the on-site inspection/appraisal expense advance at the request of the Court.
2. In cases where the Courts deem it is necessary and decide to conduct on-site inspection/appraisal, the plaintiffs, the persons requesting for settlement of civil matters and the appellants according to appeallate procedures must pay the on-site inspection/appraisal advance.

Section 250. Original section/article: 157. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear on-site inspection/appraisal expense Unless otherwise agreed by involved parties or provided for by laws, the obligation to bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense shall be determined as follows:
1. Involved parties must bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense if their requests are rejected by the Courts;
2. In cases where the Court is requested to divide a common property, each person who has received a share from such property must bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense amount proportionate to the value of the property share he/she has received;
3. In divorce cases, plaintiffs must pay the on-site inspection/appraisal expense, regardless of whether the Courts accept their requests or not. In cases where both parties voluntarily agree on their divorce, each involved party must bear half of the on-site inspection/appraisal expense;
4. If the settlement of the cases is suspended as prescribed in point c clause 1

Section 251. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the plaintiffs must bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense.
If the settlement of the cases is suspended as prescribed in point b clause 1

Section 252. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the appellants according to appellate procedures must bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense;
5. For other cases where the settlement is suspended according to regulations of this Code, persons who request for the inspection/appraisal must bear the on-site inspection/appraisal expense.

Section 253. Original section/article: 158. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of on-site inspection/appraisal expense advances 1. If the person who has paid the on-site inspection/appraisal advance is not liable for the on-site inspection/appraisal expense, the person who has to bear such expense under the decision of the Court shall refund such advance to the former.
2. In cases where the person who has paid the request for judicial assistance advance is liable for the request for judicial assistance expense and the advance that has been paid is smaller than the actual on-site inspection/appraisal expense, such person must pay the deficit; if the paid advance is bigger than the actual on-site inspection/appraisal expense, such person shall receive the surplus according to the court's decision.

Section 254. Original section/article: 159. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Expertise expense advance, expertise expense 1. Expertise expense advance means a sum of money estimated by the expert-witness to be paid for the expertise under the Court's decision or at the request of the involved parties.
2. Expertise expense means a necessary and reasonable sum of money to be paid for the expertise that is calculated by the expert-witness pursuant to law provisions.

Section 255. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to pay expertising expense advances In cases where the parties do not otherwise agree or the law does not otherwise prescribe, the obligation to pay expertising expense advances shall be determined as follows:
1. Persons requesting the Courts to request expertise must pay the expertising expense advances.
If the involved parties requesting the Courts to request expertise on the same objects, each involved party must pay a half of the expertising expense advances;
2. If the Courts deem that it is necessary to request expertise and decide to request expertise, the involved parties, the requesters for civil matter resolution, the appellants under appellate trial procedure must pay the expertising expense advances;
3. If involved parties, requesters for civil matter resolution, appellants whose applications for expertise request are rejected by the Courts request other organizations/individuals to conduct expertises, the expertising expense advances shall be paid according to provisions of the Law on judicial expertise.

Section 256. Original section/article: 161. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear expertising expenses 
In cases where the parties do not otherwise agree or the law does not otherwise prescribe, the obligation to bear expertising expenses shall be determined as follows:
1. The persons who request for expertising request must bear the expertising expenses if the expertising results prove that their requests are groundless. If the expertising results prove that their requests are partially grounded, they must pay the expertising expenses for the requested parts that are proved groundless;
2. The persons who do not accept the expertising requests of other involved parties to the cases must pay the expertising expenses if the expertising results prove that the expertising requests are well grounded. If the expertising results prove that the requests are partially grounded, the persons who do not accept the expertising requests must bear the expertising expenses for the requested parts that are proved well-grounded;
3. For termination of case resolution specified in point c clause 1

Section 257. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
and point b clause 1

Section 258. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the plaintiffs must bear the expertising expenses.
For cases where the appellate trial is terminated as prescribed in point b clause 1

Section 259. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the appellants under appellate procedure must bear the expertising expenses;
4. If a person himself/herself requests for expertises as prescribed in clause 3

Section 260. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and the expertising results prove that his/her expertising request is well-grounded, the losing party must bear the expertising expenses. If the expertising results prove that their expertising requests are partially grounded, they must pay the expertising expenses for their requested parts that are proved groundless;
5. For other cases where case resolution is terminated as prescribed in this Code, those who request for expertise must bear the expertising expenses.

Section 261. Original section/article: 162. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of paid expertising expense advances 1. In cases where the persons who have advanced expertising expenses do not have to pay the expertising expenses, the persons who must pay the expertising expenses under Court decisions must refund the money to the persons who have paid them.
2. In cases where the persons who have paid the expertising expense advances are obliged to pay the expertising expenses, but the paid advance money is not enough to cover the actual expertising expenses, such persons must pay the deficit amount. If the advanced amounts exceed the actual expertising expenses, the surplus shall be refunded to the persons who have advanced the money.

Section 262. Original section/article: 163. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Property valuation expense advances, property valuation expenses 1. The property valuation expense advance means a sum of money estimated by the Evaluation Boards for valuation conducted under a Court decision.
2. Valuation expenses are the reasonable and necessary sums of money to be paid for the valuation and calculated by the Valuation Boards on the basis of law provisions.

Section 263. Original section/article: 164. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to advance property valuation expenses In cases where the involved parties do not otherwise agree or the law does not otherwise prescribe, the obligation to pay property valuation expenses shall be determined as follows:
1. The persons requesting for property valuation must pay the property valuation expense advances;
2. In cases where the involved parties could not agree on the prices and request the Courts to conduct the property valuation, each party must pay half of the property valuation expense advances. If there are multiple involved parties, all parties must pay the property valuation expense advances at rates decided by the Courts;
3. For cases specified in clause 3

Section 264. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the plaintiffs/appellants must pay the property valuation expense advances.

Section 265. Original section/article: 165. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to bear property valuation/price appraisal expenses In cases where the parties do not otherwise agree or the law does not otherwise prescribe, the obligation to bear property valuation/price appraisal expenses shall be determined as follows:
1. Involved parties must bear the property valuation expenses if their requests are not accepted by the Courts;
2. In case where the Court is requested to divide a common property, each person who has received a share from such property must bear the property valuation expense amount proportionate to the value of the property share he/she has received;
3. In cases where the Courts issue decisions on property valuation prescribed in point c clause 3

Section 266. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the obligation to bear the property valuation expenses shall be determined as follows:
a) Involved parties must bear the property valuation expenses prescribed in clause 1 of this Article if the valuation results prove that the property valuation decisions of the Courts are well- grounded;
b) The Courts shall pay the property valuation expenses if the valuation results prove that the property valuation decisions of the Courts are groundless.
4. For termination of case resolution specified in point c clause 1

Section 267. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
and point b clause 1

Section 268. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, if the Evaluation Boards have conducted the valuation, the plaintiffs must bear the property valuation expenses.
For cases where the appellate trial is terminated as prescribed in point b clause 1

Section 269. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, if the Evaluation Boards have conducted the valuation, the appellants under appellate procedure must bear the property valuation expenses;
5. For other termination of case resolution as prescribed in this Code, if the Evaluation Boards have conducted the valuation, the requesters for property valuation must bear the property valuation expenses;
6. The obligation to bear the property valuation expenses of involved parties shall be in accordance with the obligation to bear the property valuation expenses specified in clauses 1, 2, 4 and 5 of this Article.

Section 270. Original section/article: 166. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of valuation expense advances 1. In cases where the persons who have advanced property valuation expenses do not have to pay the valuation expenses, the persons who must pay the valuation expenses under Court decisions must refund the money to the persons who have paid them.
2. In cases where the persons who have advanced the property valuation expenses are obliged to pay them, but the advanced amounts are not enough to cover the actual valuation expenses, such persons must pay the deficits. If the advanced sums exceed the actual valuation expenses, the surpluses shall be refunded to the persons who have advanced the money.

Section 271. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Expenses for witnesses 1. Reasonable and actual expenses for witnesses shall be borne by the involved parties.
2. The persons who request the Courts to summon witnesses must bear the expenses for such witnesses, if the testimonies of the witnesses are true but not right for the demands of the person requesting to summon such witnesses. If the testimonies are true and right for the demands of the persons requesting to summon such witnesses, the expenses must be borne by the party making requests independent from the former's requests.

Section 272. Original section/article: 168. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Expenses for interpreters and lawyers 1. Expenses for interpreters mean sum of money payable to interpreters in the course of settling civil cases as agreed upon by the involved parties and the interpreters or stipulated by law.
2. Expenses for lawyers mean sums of money payable to lawyers as agreed upon by the involved parties and the lawyers within the prescribed scope of the law-practicing organization and according to law provisions.
3. Expenses for interpreters or lawyers shall be borne by the persons requesting such interpreters or lawyers, except otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
4. Where the Courts request interpreters, the expenses for the interpreters shall be paid by the courts.

Section 273. Original section/article: 169. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Specific regulations on procedural expenses Pursuant to regulations in this Code, the Standing committee of the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam shall issue specific regulations on expense of overseas request for judicial assistance, costs of on-site inspection and appraisal, costs of expertise and price appraisal of properties; cost of payment for witnesses and interpreters; other procedural costs prescribed in other laws and the exemption and decrease of procedural costs during the case settlement.
Chapter X ISSUANCE, SENDING AND NOTIFICATION OF PROCEDURAL DOCUMENTS

Section 274. Original section/article: 170. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Obligation to issue, send or notify procedural documents The courts, the procuracies and the judgment-executing bodies shall issue, send or notify procedural documents to the involved parties, other participants in procedures and relevant agencies, organizations and individuals according to the provisions of this Code and relevant law provisions.

Section 275. Original section/article: 171. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedural documents to be issued, sent or notified 1. Announcements, written notices, summons, invitations in civil procedures.
2. Judgments and decisions of courts.
3. Appellate decisions of procuracies; documents of civil judgment-executing bodies.
4. Other procedural documents prescribed by law.

Section 276. Original section/article: 172. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Persons effecting the issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents The issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents shall be carried out by the following persons:
1. Civil proceeding officers or people of the procedure document-promulgating agencies who are tasked to issue, send or notify procedural documents;
2. The commune-level People's Committees of the localities where the civil procedure participants reside or the agencies or organizations where the civil procedure participants work when so requested by courts;
3. The involved parties, their representatives or the defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests in the cases prescribed by this Code;
4. Postal service organization officers;
5. Persons with sending function;
6. Other persons defined by law.

Section 277. Original section/article: 173. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Modes of issuing, sending or notifying procedural documents The issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents may be effected by the following modes:
1. Issuance, sending or notification effected directly or by post office or by the third persons who are authorized to effect the issuance, sending or notification;
2. Issuance, sending or notification effected by electronic means at the request of the involved parties or other participants in accordance with law regulations on electronic transaction;
3. Public posting;
4. Announcement on the mass media;
5. Issuance, sending or notification effected by other modes prescribed in Chapter XXXVIII of this Code.

Section 278. Original section/article: 174. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Validity of the issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents 1. The issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents, which is carried out in accordance with this Code, shall be considered valid.
2. The persons who are obliged to effect the issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents must comply with the provisions of this Code.
The persons who are obliged to execute procedural documents that are conformably issued, sent or notified must strictly executive such documents.

Section 279. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents 1. The persons effecting the issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents must directly hand the relevant procedural documents to the persons to whom such documents are issued, sent or notified. The latter must sign in the minutes or books recording the delivery and
receipt of procedural documents. The time for calculating the procedural time limit is the date when they are issued or sent with, or notified of, the procedural documents.
2. Procedural documents that are issued, sent or notified by post office must be registered mails that are certified by the receivers.
Certified documents must be returned to the Courts.
Time limit for conducting civil procedures shall be calculated from the day on which the receivers certify that they have received the procedural documents from the post office.

Section 280. Original section/article: 176. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents by electronic means The issuance, sending and notification of procedural documents by electronic means shall be conformable to law on electronic transaction.
The Supreme People‟s Court shall provide guidance on the implementation of this Article.

Section 281. Original section/article: 177. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for direct issuance, sending or notification to individuals 1. Procedural documents that are issued, sent or notified to addresses that the involved parties provided for the Courts in modes requested by the involved parties or to the addresses agreed and requested by the involved parties.
2. If the persons to whom procedural documents are issued, sent or notified are individuals, the procedural documents must be delivered directly to them. Involved parties must sign the minutes of receipt as prescribed in clause 1

Section 282. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. If the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued, sent or notified have moved to new residences and have notified the Courts of the change of residences, such procedural documents must be sent to their new residences. Involved parties must append signatures or fingerprints on the minutes of receipt as prescribed in clause 1

Section 283. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If such involved parties failed to notify the Courts of the change of residences and the new addresses, the Courts shall comply with provisions of Articles 179 and 180 of this Code.
4. Where the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued, sent or notified refuse to receive such documents, the issuers, senders or notifiers must make records thereon clearly stating reasons therefor, with certification by population group leaders or police offices of communes of their refusal. The records must be recorded in the case files.
5. If the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued/sent/notified are absent from the residences, the issuers/senders/notifiers must make records and deliver the documents to their relatives who have fully civil capacity living with them or to their population group leaders, then ask such relatives or population group leaders to append signatures or fingerprints on the minutes of receipt and to undertake to directly deliver the documents to the to be-issued/sent/notified persons. The records must be recorded in the case files.
If the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued/sent/notified are absent from the residences and the time they return is indefinite or their new residences are unknown, the issuers/senders/notifiers must make a records therein with certification of the population group leaders or Police offices of communes; simultaneously, conduct the public posting procedures of the to be-sent documents according to regulations in

Section 284. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. The records must be recorded in the case files.

Section 285. Original section/article: 178. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for direct issuance, sending or notification to agencies, organizations 1. Where the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued, sent or notified are agencies or organizations, the procedural documents must be delivered directly to their representatives at law or persons responsible for the receipt thereof, who must sign the receipts. Where the agencies or organizations to which the documents are issued, sent or notified have their representatives to participate in the civil procedure or to receive the procedural documents, such persons shall sign for the receipt thereof. The date of signing for receipt shall be regarded as the date of issuance, sending or notification.
2. If the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued, sent or notified refuse to receive such documents or are absent, provisions in clauses 4 and 5

Section 286. Original section/article: 177. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall be complied with.

Section 287. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for public posting 1. The public posting of procedural documents shall be carried out the procedural documents cannot be issued/sent/notified as prescribed in Articles 177 and 178 of this Code.
2. The public posting of procedural documents shall be conducted by Courts directly, or by persons with sending function or commune-level People's Committees of the localities where the involved parties reside or where the agencies/organizations are headquartered that are authorized by the Courts according to the following procedures:
a) Posting the originals of the procedural documents at the offices of the Courts or the commune- level People's Committees of the localities where the persons to whom the documents are issued, sent or notified reside or reside last, or where the agencies/organizations to which the documents are issued, sent or notified are headquartered or headquartered last;
b) Posting the copies thereof at the places of residence or last residence of such persons to whom the documents are issued, sent or notified; or at the headquarters or last headquarters of the agencies/organizations to which the documents are issued/sent or notified;
c) Making records on the public-posting procedures, clearly stating the date of posting.
3. The duration for public posting of procedural documents is 15 days as from the date of posting.

Section 288. Original section/article: 180. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for announcement on the mass media 1. The announcement on the mass media shall be effected only when it is so provided for by law or when there are grounds to believe that the public posting does not guarantee that the persons to whom the procedural documents are issued, sent or notified get the information on such documents.
2. The announcement on the mass media can be effected if so requested by the other involved parties. In this case, the fees for announcement on the mass media shall be borne by the announcement requesters.
3. Announcement on the mass media shall be published on e-portals of the Courts, on one of central dailies for three consecutive issues, and broadcasted on the central radio or television channels three times for 03 consecutive days.

Section 289. Original section/article: 181. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notification of results of issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents Where the persons that issue, send or notify the procedural documents are neither Courts nor procedural document-issuing agencies, nor their officials, such persons must immediately notify the results of issuance, sending or notification of procedural documents to the Courts or the agencies issuing such procedural documents.
Chapter XI PROCEDURAL TIME LIMITS

Section 290. Original section/article: 182. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedural time limits 1. The procedural time limit is a period of time which is determined from this point of time to another point of time for the procedure-conducting persons, procedure participants or relevant agencies, organizations and individuals to perform procedural acts prescribed by this Code.
2. The procedural time limit can be determined in hour, day, week, month, year or an event which may occur.

Section 291. Original section/article: 183. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application of the Civil Code's regulations on time limits The method of calculating the procedural time limits, the regulations on procedural time limits, the starting time and the ending time of the procedural time limits in this Code shall comply with the corresponding provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 292. Original section/article: 184. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
The statute of limitations for lawsuits, the statute of limitations for requests for civil matter resolution 1. The statute of limitations for lawsuits, the statute of limitations for requests for civil matter resolution shall conform to provisions of the Civil Code.
2. The Courts shall apply the regulations on statute of limitations according to the requests for application of statute of limitations of one or multiple sides, provided that such requests are made before the first-instance Courts issue the judgments/decisions on such matters/cases.
The persons to get benefits from the application of statute of limitations may refuse to apply the statute of limitations, unless such refusal is to avoid their performance of obligations.

Section 293. Original section/article: 185. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application of the Civil Code's regulations on statute of limitations The Civil Code's regulations on statute of limitations shall apply in civil procedures.
PART TWO PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING CASES AT FIRST-INSTANCE COURTS 
Chapter XII INSTITUTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF CASES

Section 294. Original section/article: 186. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to institute cases Agencies, organizations and individuals are entitled to institute cases by themselves or through their lawful representatives (hereinafter referred to as the litigators) at competent Courts to request the protection of their legitimate rights and interests.

Section 295. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to institute civil lawsuits to protect legitimate rights and interests of other persons, public interests and/or the State's interests 1. Family affair authorities, children affair authorities and Vietnam Women's Union, within their tasks and power, may initiate lawsuits pertaining to marriage and family as prescribed in Law on marriage and family.
2. Employee collective‟s representative organizations shall have the right to institute labor cases where it is necessary to protect the legitimate rights and interests of the employee collective or where authorized by the employees as prescribed by law.
3. Social organizations protecting interests of consumers shall have the right to represent consumers to institute lawsuits to protect interests of consumers or institute lawsuits themselves for public interests according to provisions of the Law on protection of consumers‟ interests.
4. Agencies and organizations shall, within the scope of their respective tasks and powers, have the right to institute civil lawsuits to request Courts to protect the public interests and/or the State‟s interests in the domains under their respective charge or according to law provisions.
5. Individuals shall have the right to institute lawsuits pertaining to marriage and family to protect legitimate rights and benefits of other people according to regulations on marriage and family.

Section 296. Original section/article: 188. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Scope of initiation of lawsuits 1. An agency, organization or individual may initiate a lawsuit against another or many other agencies, organizations and/or individuals regarding one legal relation or many interrelated legal relations for settlement in the same case.
2. Multiple agencies, organizations and/or individuals may initiate a lawsuit against another agency, organization or individual regarding one legal relation or many interrelated legal relations for settlement in the same case.
3. Any agency, organization or individual specified in

Section 297. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code may initiate a lawsuit against another or many other agencies, organizations or individuals regarding one legal relation or many interrelated legal relations for settlement in the same case.

Section 298. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Form and contents of a lawsuit petition 1. Individuals, agencies and organizations initiating lawsuits must prepare their petitions.
2. Individuals shall draw up petitions as follows:
a) Individuals with fully civil procedure act capacity may draw up petitions themselves or request other persons to draw up petitions. Names and residential addresses of such individuals shall be written at the blanks for names and addresses of the litigators; at the end of the petitions, there shall be signatures or fingerprints of such individuals;
b) Regarding individuals being minors, legally incapacitated persons, persons with limited cognition or behavior control, their lawful representatives may draw up petitions themselves or request other persons to draw up petitions. Names and residential addresses of such individuals shall be written at blanks for names and addresses of the litigators; at the end of the petitions, there shall be signatures or fingerprints of the lawful representatives;
c) Individuals of cases specified in points a and b of this clause who are illiterate or have visual disabilities or who cannot draw up petitions or append signatures or fingerprints themselves may request other persons to help them draw up the petitions under the witnessing of persons with fully civil procedure capacity. The witnesses must append their signatures on the petitions.
3. If litigators are agencies or organizations, the lawful representatives of such agencies/organizations may draw up themselves or request other persons to draw up petitions. Names and residential addresses of such agencies/organizations and full names and positions of their lawful representatives shall be written at the blanks for names and address of litigators; at the end of the petitions, there shall be signatures and seals of the lawful representatives of such agencies/organizations. If the litigators are enterprises, the use of seals must comply with regulations in the Law on Enterprise.
4. A lawsuit petition must include the following principal contents:
a) Date of its making;
b) Name of the Court receiving the lawsuit petition;
c) Name, place of residence, place of work of the litigator (applicable to litigators being individuals) or head office of the litigator (applicable to litigators being agencies/organizations); phone number, fax and e-mail address (if any).
If the parties reach agreement on an address for the Court to contact, such address shall be specified;
d) Name, place of residence, place of work of person whose interests and duties are protected (applicable to individuals) or head office of person whose interests and duties are protected (applicable to agencies and organizations); phone number, fax and e-mail address (if any);
dd) Name, place of residence, place of work of the defendant (applicable to individuals) or head office of the defendant (applicable to agencies/organizations); phone number, fax and e-mail address (if any). If the place of residence, place of work or head office of the defendant is indefinite, the last place of residence, place of work or head office of the defendant shall be specified;
e) Name, place of residence, place of work of person with relevant interests and duties (applicable to individuals) or head office of person with relevant interests and duties (applicable to agencies and organizations); phone number, fax and e-mail address (if any).
If the place of residence, place of work or head office of the person with relevant interests and duties is indefinite, the last place of residence, place of work or head office of the defendant shall be specified;
g) Lawful interests and duties of the litigator that are infringed upon; specific matters of the defendant, person with relevant interests and duties that are applied for resolution by the Court;
h) Names and addresses of witnesses (if any);
i) List of documents and/or evidences accompanied with lawsuit petitions.
5. The petitions must be accompanied with materials and evidences proving that legal rights and interests of litigators are infringed upon. For cases where due to objective reasons, the litigators failed to provide adequately materials and evidences accompanied with the petitions, they must
provide current materials and evidences to prove that legal rights and interests of the litigators are infringed upon. Litigators shall supplement materials and evidences at the request of the Courts during the case resolution.

Section 299. Original section/article: 190. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Submission of lawsuit petitions to courts 1. Litigators shall submit their lawsuit petitions and the accompanied documents and/or evidences to Courts competent to settle their cases by the following modes:
a) Direct submission at courts;
b) Sending to Courts by post;
c) Sending through e-portal of Courts (if any).
2. Date of initiation of lawsuits is the day on which the Courts receive the petitions submitted by involved parties or the date written on the seals of the post office where the petitions are sent from.
In cases where the date cannot be identified through the seals of the sending post offices, the date of initiation of lawsuit shall be the day on which the involved parties send the petitions from the post offices. Involved parties shall prove the day on which they sent the petitions from the post offices; otherwise, the date of initiation of lawsuit shall be the day on which the Courts receive the petitions delivered by the post offices.
3. If the litigators send the petitions through e-portal, the date of initiation of lawsuit shall be the day on which the petitions are sent.
4. If the cases are transferred to other Courts as prescribed in

Section 300. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the date of initiation of lawsuit shall be the day on which the petitions are sent to the Courts which have accepted the petitions ultra vires and shall be determined according to provisions in clause 2 and 3 of this Article.
5. The Supreme People‟s Court shall provide guidance on the implementation of this Article.

Section 301. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for receiving and processing lawsuit petitions 1. Courts, via petition receiving divisions, must receive lawsuit petitions lodged by litigators directly or via post and must record them in the petition registers. If the petitions are sent through the e-portal, the Courts shall make printing copies of the petitions and must record them in the petition registers.
When receiving petitions that are submitted directly, Courts shall immediately issue the receiving slip for the litigators. For petitions sent by post, within 02 working days from the day on which the petitions are received, the Courts shall send the litigators notifications of the receipt of the petitions. If the petitions are sent through the e-portal, the Courts shall immediately notify the litigators of the receipt of the petitions via their e-portal (if any).
2. Within 03 working days from the day on which the petitions are received, the Chief Justices of Courts shall assign one Judge to review the petitions.
3. Within 05 working days from the day on which they are assigned, the Judges shall review the petitions and make one of the following decisions:
a) To request for amendment and/or supplementation of lawsuit petitions;
b) To carry out the acceptance procedures of the cases according to normal procedures or simplified procedures, if the cases are satisfied for resolution according to simplified procedures as prescribed in clause 1

Section 302. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
c) To transfer the lawsuit petitions to competent Courts and notify the litigators thereof if the cases fall under other courts' jurisdiction;
d) To return the lawsuit petitions to the litigators if such cases do not fall under the court's jurisdiction.
4. Results of petition processing of the Judges prescribed in clause 3 of this Article must be recorded to the petition registers and notified to the litigators via the Courts‟ e-portals (if any).

Section 303. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Return of lawsuit petitions, consequences of the return of lawsuit petitions 1. The Courts shall return the lawsuit petitions in the following cases:
a) The petitioners have no right to initiate a lawsuit as prescribed in Articles 186 and 187 of this Code or do not have full civil procedure act capacity;
b) Conditions for initiating lawsuits prescribed by law are not fully satisfied.
Cases where conditions for initiating lawsuits are not fully satisfied are cases where there are provisions about conditions for initiating lawsuits but the litigators initiate lawsuits when any of such conditions has not been satisfied;
c) The matters have been resolved by effective judgments or decisions of Courts or legally binding decisions of competent State agencies, except for cases where the Courts reject the applications for divorce, for change in child adoption, change of alimony levels or damage compensation levels, or applications for change of property manager, change of inherited- property manager, change of guardian or cases of the reclaim of leased or lent properties or houses leased, lent or offered for other people's free-of-charge stay, which have not been recognized by Court and eligible for re-initiation of lawsuits as prescribed by law;
d) After the time limit specified in clause 2

Section 304. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the litigators fail to submit the receipts of Court fee advances to the Courts, except for cases they are exempt or do not have to pay the Court fee advances or there are objective obstacles or force majeure events;
dd) The cases do not fall under the courts' jurisdiction;
e) The litigators fail to amend or supplement the petitions at the request of the Judges as prescribed in clause 2

Section 305. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
If in the petitions, the litigators have written sufficiently and accurately the residential addresses of the defendants and/or the persons with relevant interests and duties but such persons change their residences regularly without notification to compentent agencies/persons according to law regulations on residence to evade obligations towards the litigators, the Judges shall not return the lawsuit petitions but regard the defendants/persons with related interests and duties as purposely concealing their addresseses and accept the petition and conduct settlement according to general procedures.
If in the petitions, the litigators failed to declare sufficiently or accurately names and addresses of defendants and/or persons with relevant interests and duties and fail to make
amendment/supplement according to the requests of the Judges, the Judges shall return the petitions to the litigators;
g) The litigators withdraw the petitions.
2. When returning the petitions and the enclosed materials and evidences to the litigators, the Judges shall make writings containing reasons for the return of the petitions and send them to the litigators and the procuracies of the same levels. Petitions and materials and evidences that the Judges return to the litigators must be photocopied and retained at the Court to serve as the basis for settlement of the complaints/recommendations on request.
3. Involved parties may re-submit the petitions in the following cases:
a) The litigators have fully had civil procedure act capacity;
b) The petitions for divorces, for change in child adoption, change of alimony levels or damage compensation levels, or petitions for change of property manager, change of inherited-property manager, change of guardian or cases of the reclaim of leased or lent properties or houses leased, lent or offered for other people's free-of-charge stay have not been recognized by Court and are eligible for re-initiation of lawsuits as prescribed by law;
c) Requirements for initiating lawsuits have been fully satisfied;
d) Other cases prescribed by law.
4. The Supreme People‟s Court shall provide guidance on the implementation of clauses 1 and 3 of this Article.

Section 306. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Request for amendment and/or supplementation of lawsuit petitions 1. In cases where a lawsuit petition does not fully contain the details prescribed in Clause 4,

Section 307. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court shall make written notification of such to the litigator for amendment and/or supplementation within a time limit set by the Judge, which, however, must not exceed 01 month; for special cases, the Judge may extend that time limit but for not more than 15 days. The written notification shall be sent directly, online or by post to the litigator and must be recorded to the petition register for supervision. Duration of amendment/supplement shall not be included in the statute of limitations of lawsuit initiation.
2. In cases where the litigators have amended and/or supplemented their lawsuit petitions strictly according to the provisions of Clause 4,

Section 308. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts shall continue processing the cases; if they fail to amend and/or supplement their lawsuit petitions as requested, the Judges shall return the petitions as well as materials and evidences to the litigators.

Section 309. Original section/article: 194. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Complaints, recommendations about the return of lawsuit petitions and settlement thereof 1. Within 10 days from the day on which the returned petitions are received, the litigators may file their complaints, or the procuracies may file recommendations to the Courts which have returned the lawsuit petitions.
2. Immediately after the complaints, recommendations about the return of lawsuit petitions are received, the Chief Justices of the Courts shall assign other Judges to review and settle such complaints/recommendations.
3. Within 05 working days from the day on which they are assigned, the Judges shall hold meeting to review and settle the complaints/recommendations. Such meeting must be under the attendance of representatives of procuracies of the same levels and involved parties filing the complaints; if the involved parties are absent, the sessions shall be carried out under the direction of the Judges.
4. Pursuant to materials and evidences related to the return of lawsuit petitions, opinions of representatives of procuracies and involved parties filing complaints at the meetings, the Judge shall make one of the following decisions:
a) To remain the return of lawsuit petitions and notify the involved parties and procuracies of the same level;
b) To receive back the lawsuit petitions and accompanied materials as well as evidences in order to process the cases.
5. Within 10 days from the day on which the decisions responding the complaints/recommendations are received, the litigators may file their complaints, or the procuracies may file recommendations to the Chief Justices of the directly superior Courts for consideration and settlement.
6. Within 10 days from the day on which the complaints/recommendations pertaining to the return of the lawsuit petitions are received, the Chief Justices of the directly superior Courts must make one of the following decisions:
a) To uphold the return of the lawsuit petitions;
b) To request the first-instance Courts to receive back the lawsuit petitions and accompanied materials as well as evidences in order to process the cases.
The decisions on settlement of complaints/recommendations of the Chief Justices of the Courts of the directly superior shall be immediately effective and shall be sent to the litigators, procuracies of the same level, the procuracies filing the recommendation and the Courts having issued the decisions on return of the petitions.
7. If there are grounds to determine that the decisions of Chief Justice of the immediate superior Court prescribed in clause 6 of this Article are contrary to the law, then within 10 days from the day on which the decisions are received, the involved parties may file complaints or the procuracies may file recommendations to the Chief Justices of the Collegial People‟s Courts (applicable to cases where the decisions subject to complaint/recommendation are issued by the People‟s Courts of provinces) or to the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court (applicable to cases where the decisions subject to complaint/recommendation are issued by Collegial People‟s Courts)
Within 10 days as from the day on which the complaints of the involved parties or the recommendations of the procuracies are received, the Chief Justices must consider and settle them. Decision of the Chief Justices shall be the final one.

Section 310. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Accepting cases 1. After receiving lawsuit petitions and accompanied materials and/or evidences, if deeming that the cases fall within the courts‟ jurisdiction, the Judges shall immediately notify the litigators
thereof so that they may come to Courts for carrying out procedures to advance the Court fees in cases where they are liable thereto.
2. The Judges shall estimate the Court fee advance amounts, write them down on the notices and hand them to the litigators for payment of Court fee advances. Within 07 days as from the day on which the courts' notices on payment of Court fee advances are received, the litigators must pay such advances and submit the receipts for payment of Court fee advances.
3. The Judges shall accept the petitions when the litigators have submitted to the Courts the Court fee advance payment receipts.
4. In cases where the litigators are exempt from, or not required to pay, Court fee advances, the Judges must accept the petitions upon receiving the lawsuit petitions and accompanied materials and/or evidences.

Section 311. Original section/article: 196. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notice on acceptance of cases 1. Within 03 working days from the day on which the cases are accepted, the Judge must send written notices to plaintiffs, defendants, agencies, organizations and individuals with rights and obligations related to the settlement of the cases, to the procuracies of the same level on the Courts‟ acceptances of the cases.
Regarding cases initiated by consumers, the Courts shall post publicly at the offices of the Courts information about the acceptance of the cases within 03 working days from the day on which the cases are accepted.
2. Such a written notice must contain the following principal details:
a) Date on which the notice is made;
b) Name and address of the Court accepting the case;
c) Name, address; phone number, fax, e-mail address (if any) of the litigator;
d) Specific matters that the litigator for request the Court to resolve;
dd) That whether the case is accepted under normal procedures or simplified procedures;
e) List of materials and evidences submitted together with the lawsuit petition by the litigator;
g) Time limit for the defendant and/ or person with relevant interests and duties to submit to the Court opinions in writing towards the request of the litigator and accompanied materials and evidences, counter-claims, independent claims (if any);
h) Legal consequences of case where the defendant and/or person with relevant interests and duties fail to submit to the Court opinion in writing for the petition for initiating lawsuit.
3. If the plaintiffs file application for the assistance of the Court in the sending of materials and evidences, the notices on the acceptance of the cases that the Courts sent to the defendants and/or persons with relevant interests and duties copies of materials and evidences provided by the plaintiffs.

Section 312. Original section/article: 197. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Assigning Judges to settle cases 1. On the basis of the reports on the acceptance of the cases made by the Judges assigned to accept the petitions, the Chief Justices of the Courts shall give decision on assignment of Judges to settle the cases, ensuring the principle of impartiality, objectiveness and contingency.
2. Within 03 working days from the day on which a case is accepted, the court's Chief Justice shall assign a Judge to resolve the case.
For complicated cases and the settlement seemed to be long-lasting, the Chief Justices of the Courts shall assign alternate Judges to ensure the on-schedule settlement as prescribed by the Code.
3. In the course of settling the case, if the assigned Judge cannot continue with the assigned task, the Chief Justice of the Court shall assign another Judge to continue that work; in cases where the trial is being underway without the alternate Judge, the case must be retried from the beginning and the Court must notify the involved parties and the procuracies of the same levels of the retrial.

Section 313. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tasks and powers of Judges when preparing case files 1. Set up the case files as prescribed in

Section 314. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Request the involved parties to submit materials and evidences to courts.
3. Verify the case and collect evidences according to the provisions of Clauses 2 and 3,

Section 315. Original section/article: 199. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and duties of defendants and persons with relevant interests and duties after receiving the notices 1. Within 15 days from the day on which the notices are received, defendants and/or persons with relevant interests and duties must submit to the Court opinions in writing towards the request of the plaintiffs and materials and evidences, counter-claims and independent claims (if any).
Any defendant or person with relevant interests and duties wishing to have such time limit extended must submit to the Court an application for time extension stating the reasons for such extension; if the application is well-grounded, the Court shall grant the extension that must not exceed 15 days.
2. Defendants or persons with relevant interests and duties are entitled to request the Court to allow them to see, take notes or make photocopies of the petitions and materials and evidences enclosed therewith, except for materials and evidences specified in clause 2

Section 316. Original section/article: 200. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Defendants' right to make counter-claims 1. Together with their obligation to submit to Courts their written opinions on the plaintiffs' claims, the defendants are entitled to file counter-claims against the plaintiffs or persons with relevant interests and duties who have made independent claims.
2. The defendants' counter-claims against the plaintiffs and/or persons with relevant interests and duties shall be accepted in one of the following cases:
a) The counter-claims are made to clear liability against the plaintiffs' claims and/or persons with relevant interests and duties with independent claims;
b) The accepted counter-claims may exclude the partial or full acceptance of the plaintiffs' claims and/or persons with relevant interests and duties who have made independent claims;
c) There is an interrelation between the counter-claim and the claim of the plaintiff/person with relevant interests and duties, and if these claims are settled in the same case, the resolution of such claims in the same case shall be more accurate and quicker.
3. Defendants are entitled to make counter-claims before the opening of the meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating.

Section 317. Original section/article: 201. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right of persons with related interests and obligations to make independent claims 1. In cases where the persons with related interests and obligations do not participate in the procedures on the side of the plaintiff or the defendant, they shall be entitled to make independent claims when the following conditions are met:
a) The resolution of the case is related to their interests and obligations;
b) Their independent claims are related to the case being settled;
c) If their independent claims are settled in the same case, the resolution of such case shall be more accurate and quicker.
2. Persons with relevant interests and duties are entitled to make independent claims before the opening of the meeting held for meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating.

Section 318. Original section/article: 202. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for making counter-claims or independent claims The procedures for making counter-claims or independent claims shall comply with this Code‟s regulations on procedures for initiating lawsuits by plaintiffs.
Chapter XIII MEDIATION AND TRIAL PREPARATION PROCEDURES

Section 319. Original section/article: 203. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for trial preparation 1. The time limits for preparation for trial over cases of various types, except for cases resolved under simplified procedures or cases involving foreign elements are specified as follows:
a) For the cases prescribed in Articles 26 and 28 of this Code, the time limit shall be 04 months counting from the day on which the cases are accepted;
b) For the cases prescribed in Articles 30 and 32 of this Code, the time limit shall be 02 months counting from the day on which the cases are accepted.
For complicated cases, or when due to force majeure events or objective obstacles, the Chief Justices of Courts may decide to extend the trial preparation time limits but for not more than 02 months for cases prescribed in Point a of this clause and 01 month for cases prescribed in Point b of this clause.
If there are decisions on suspension of case resolution, the time limit for trial preparation shall be calculated from the day on which the decisions to resume the case resolution issued by the Courts take legal effect.
2. In the process of trial preparation, the Judge shall carry out the following tasks and power:
a) Set up the case files as prescribed in

Section 320. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Determine the status of the involved parties and other participants in the procedure;
c) Determine the disputing relationship between involved parties and the applicable law provisions;
d) Examine objective details of the cases;
dd) Verify the cases and collect evidences according to the regulations in this Code;
e) Apply provisional emergency measures;
g) Hold meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating according to provisions of this Code, except for cases resolved under simplified procedures;
h) Fulfill other tasks and power as prescribed in this Code.
3. Within the trial preparation time limits prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, the Judges shall, on a case-by-case basis, issue one of the following decisions:
a) To recognize the agreement between the involved parties;
b) To suspend the resolution of the civil lawsuit;
c) To terminate the resolution of the civil lawsuit;
d) To bring the case to trial.
4. Within 01 month from the day on which the decision to bring the case to trial is issued, the Court must open a Court session. In case of good and sufficient reason, this time limit shall be 02 months.

Section 321. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Documenting civil lawsuits’ files 1. A civil lawsuit‟s file shall include the petition and all the materials and evidences provided by involved parties and other participants; materials and evidences collected by the Courts that are related to the case; procedural documents of the Courts and the Procuracies about the resolution of such civil lawsuit.
2. All papers and documents in the civil-case file must be numbered and arranged by date. Newer papers shall be put above the older ones; such papers shall be managed, retained and used according to law provisions.

Section 322. Original section/article: 205. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Principle for conducting mediation 1. During the period of preparation for the first-instance trial over cases, the Courts must carry out mediation for the involved parties to reach agreement on the resolution of the cases, except cases which must not be mediated or cannot be mediated as stipulated in Articles 206 and 207 of this Code or cases settled under simplified procedures.
2. The mediation must be conducted on the following principles:
a) Respect for the voluntary agreement of the involved parties, non-use of force or non-threat to use force to compel the involved parties to reach agreements against their will;
b) The contents of agreements between the involved parties must not contravene law and social ethics.

Section 323. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil lawsuits which must not be mediated 1. Claims for compensation for damage caused to State properties.
2. Civil lawsuits arising from civil transactions which are contrary to law or social ethics.

Section 324. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil lawsuits which cannot be mediated 1. The defendants or the persons with relevant interests and duties are intentionally absent though having been duly summoned twice by courts.
2. The involved parties cannot take part in the mediation for plausible reasons.
3. The involved parties being wives or husbands in divorce cases have lost their civil act capacity.
4. One of involved parties applies for non-mediation.

Section 325. Original section/article: 208. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notification about meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating 1. The Judges shall hold meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating between involved parties. Before holding the meetings, the Judges shall notify the involved parties, their lawful representatives and defense counsels of their rights and interests of time, venue and contents of the meetings.
2. If the mediation over the civil lawsuits as cannot be conducted as prescribed in Articles 206 and 207 of this Code, the Judge shall hold the meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences without mediation.
3. Regarding marriage and family cases involving minors, before hold the meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating between involved parties, the Judges and/or Ombudspersons assigned by the Courts shall collect materials and evidences to determine reasons for the arising of the disputes. When it is deemed necessary, the Judges may refer to opinions of family affair authorities and children affair authorities about the situations of the families, reasons for the arising of disputes and the expectation of the wives, husbands and children related to the cases.
Regarding disputes over child rearing after divorces or change of post-divorce child custodian, the Judges shall depend on the expectation of the children who are underage and not younger than 7; when it is deemed necessary, representatives of family affair authorities and children affair authorities shall witness and contribute opinions. The collection of expectation of underage children and the conduct of other procedures for minors must be friendly, suitable for the psychology, age, mature level and the awareness of the minors, ensuring legitimate rights and interests and personal secret of minors.

Section 326. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating 1. Participants in the meetings shall include:
a) The meeting presiding Judge;
b) Court clerks in charge of writing up meeting minutes;
c) Involved or lawful representatives of involved parties;
d) Representatives of employee collective‟s representative organizations, applicable to labor cases, at the request of employees, excluding labor cases where employee collective‟s representative organizations or defense counsels of rights and interests of employees‟ collectives/employees attend as representative organizations of employees‟ collective. If the representatives of employee collective‟s representative organizations do not attend the meeting for mediating, written opinions must be submitted;
dd) Defense counsels of rights and interests of involved parties (if any);
e) Interpreters (if any).
2. W hen it is deemed necessary, the Judges shall request relevant individuals, agencies and organizations to participate in the meetings; for cases pertaining to marriage and families, the Judges shall request representatives of family affair authorities, children affair authorities and/or Vietnam Women's Union to participate in the meetings; if they are absent, the meetings shall be still conducted.
3. In cases where any of involved parties is absent but involved parties who attend agree to conduct the meetings and such meetings do not affect rights and obligations of absent involved parties, the Judges shall conduct meetings between involved parties who attend; if involved parties request to postpone the mediation meeting until all involved parties attend, the Judge must follow their request. The Judges must notify the involved parties of such postponement and the resuming of the meetings.

Section 327. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Order of meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating 1. Before conducting the meetings, Court clerks shall report the Judges about the absence and attendance of participants in the meetings that had received notifications from the Courts. The Judges presiding over the meetings shall recheck the attendance and ID cards of participants then provide involved parties with information about their rights and obligations according to provisions of this Code.
2. When checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences, the Judges shall announce materials and evidences in case files and ask the involved parties about the following matters:
a) Requests and scope of lawsuit, the amendment, supplement, modification and withdrawal of petitions for initiating lawsuits, counter-claims, independent claims; matters that have been and have not been agreed to be resolved by the Courts;
b) Materials and evidences that have been submitted to the Courts and the delivery of materials and evidences to other involved parties;
c) The amendment of materials/evidences; requests for collection of materials and evidences by the Courts; requests for summon of other involved parties by the Courts, witnesses and other participants at the Court sessions;
d) Other matters that the involved parties deem to be necessary.
3. When involved parties finished their presentations, the Judges shall review opinions and consider resolving requests of involved parties specified in clause 2 of this Article. If the persons summoned by the Courts are absent, the Courts shall notify them of the results of the meetings.
4. Procedures for mediation:
a) The Judges disseminate to involved parties the provisions of laws related to the resolution of the cases so that involved parties can relate them with their rights and obligations and analyze legal consequence of the success of the mediation then voluntarily reach agreements with each other about the resolution of the cases;
b) Plaintiff and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests make presentations of the disputes, make amendment of petitions for initiating lawsuits; grounds for protecting the petition and express opinions about matters to be mediated and resolution of the cases (if any);
c) Defendants and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests make presentations of the claims of the plaintiffs and about counter-claims (if any); grounds for protesting against the petition of the plaintiffs; grounds for defending their counter claims and express opinions about matters to be mediated and resolution of the cases (if any);
d) Persons with relevant interests and duties, defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests express their opinions about the claims of the plaintiffs and the defendants; present their independent claims (if any); grounds for protesting against the claims of the plaintiffs and the defendants; grounds for protecting their independent claims and express opinions about matters to be meditated and resolution of the cases (if any);
dd) Other participants in the mediation meetings (if any) express their opinions;
e) When involved parties and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests have expressed their opinions, the Judges shall determined matters that involved parties have or have not agreed about and request involved parties to make additional presentation about unclear and not agreed contents;
g) The Judges shall make conclusion of those which involved parties have agreed or not agreed about.

Section 328. Original section/article: 211. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Minutes of meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and mediating 1. Court clerks shall be in charge of formulating minutes of meetings for checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences and for mediating.
2. Minutes of the checking the handover of, access to and disclosure of evidences must contain the following contents:
a) Date of meeting;
b) Place of meeting;
c) The participants in the meeting;
d) Opinions of involved parties or lawful representatives of involved parties about contents specified in clause 2

Section 329. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
dd) Other contents;
e) Decisions of the Court to accept or not accept claims of involved parties.
3. Minutes of the mediation must contain the following contents:
a) Those specified in points a, b and c clause 2 of this Article;
b) Opinions of involved parties and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests of involved parties;
c) Contents have or have not been agreed by involved parties.
4. The minutes must bear the signatures or fingerprints of all participants in the meetings, signatures of the Court clerks in charge of making minutes and of the presiding Judges of the meetings. Participants in the meetings may have a look at the minutes immediately when the meetings finish and may request for amendment and supplement to the minutes before appending signatures or fingerprints.
5. If involved parties reach agreements about matters to be resolved in civil lawsuits, the Courts shall make minutes of successful mediation. Such minutes shall be immediately sent to involved parties participating in the mediation.

Section 330. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Issuing decisions to recognize the agreements of the involved parties 1. Upon the expiry of the 07-day time limit after making the records on successful mediation, if no parties change their opinions on such agreement, the Judge who presides over the mediation session or another Judge who has been assigned by the court's Chief Justice shall issue a decision recognizing the agreement of the involved parties.
Within 05 working days after the issuance of the decision to recognize the agreement of the involved parties, the Court must send the decision to the involved parties and the procuracy of the same level.
2. The Judge shall only issue a decision to recognize the agreement of the involved parties if they have reached an agreement on the resolution of the whole case.
3. In the cases stipulated in Clause 4 of

Section 331. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, where the present parties have reached agreement on the settlement of their case, such agreement shall be valid only for the present persons and shall be recognized by the Judge in a decision if it does not affect the rights and obligations of the absent parties. In cases where such agreement affects the rights and obligations of the absent parties, it shall be valid and recognized by the Judge in a decision only if it is accepted in writing by the parties that are absent from the mediation session.

Section 332. Original section/article: 213. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect of decisions to recognize the involved parties' agreements 1. The decisions to recognize the involved parties' agreements shall take effect immediately after they are issued and are not appealed against according to the appellate procedures.
2. The decisions to recognize the involved parties' agreements may be appealed against according to the cassation procedures only if there are grounds to believe that such agreements were reached as a result of mistakes, deceptions, intimidation, force or they contravene law or social ethics.

Section 333. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Suspension of the resolution of civil lawsuits 1. The Court shall issue a decision to suspend the resolution of a civil lawsuit in one of the following cases:
a) The involved parties being individuals have died or being agencies or organizations have been merged, divided, separated or dissolved without any agencies, organizations or individuals inheriting their procedural rights and obligations;
b) One involved party being an individual has lost his/her civil act capacity or being a minor while his/her representative at law has not been determined yet;
c) The lawful representative of an involved party terminates without a replacement;
d) The results of resolution of another related case or matter, which, as required by law, must be settled by other agencies or organizations before the cases are resolved, need to be waited for;
dd) The results of the request for judicial assistance, entrustment of evidence collection or materials or evidences sent from agencies/organizations at the request of the Court need to be waited for;
e) The results of the processing of legislative documents, which, related to the case resolution denote violations against a Constitution, Law or Resolution of National Assembly, Ordinance or Resolution of the Standing committee of the National, legislative documents of superior regulatory agencies to which the Court have sent written recommendations for consideration for amendment, supplement or annulment, need to be waited for;
g) The case is mentioned in

Section 334. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of the Law on Bankruptcy;
h) Other circumstances prescribed by law.
2. Within 03 working days from the day on which the decisions to suspend the resolution of civil lawsuits are issued, the Courts must send such decisions to the involved parties, the agencies/organizations/individuals initiating lawsuits and the procuracies of the same level.

Section 335. Original section/article: 215. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consequences of the suspension of resolution of civil lawsuits 1. The Court must not delete the names of suspended civil lawsuits from the case acceptance books but only note down the number and date of the decisions to suspend the resolution of such civil lawsuits in the case acceptance books.
2. The Court fee advances and Court fees paid by the involved parties shall be deposited at the State Treasury and handled when the Courts proceed with the resolution of the civil lawsuits.
3. For the cases of suspension prescribed in point e clause 1

Section 336. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, before the suspension, the Chief Justices of the Courts in charge of the cases must make a writing requesting the Chief Justices of the Supreme People‟s Court to recommend the competent agencies to consider amending, supplementing or annulling legislative documents denoting contrary to the Constitution, law, resolution of National Assembly, ordinance or resolution of the Standing committee of the National Assembly or legislative documents of superior regulatory agencies as prescribed in

Section 337. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Within 01 month from the day on which the written recommendations from the Courts are received, competent agencies must make a written response. After such period, if the competent agencies fail to issue the response, the Courts shall continue the case resolution according to the common procedures.
4. During the suspension period of the case resolution, the Judges assigned to resolve the cases must be still responsible for the case resolution.
When the decisions on suspension of the case resolution prescribed in clause 1

Section 338. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code have been issued, the Judges assigned to resolve the cases shall supervise and expedite
agencies, organizations and individuals to as soon as possible eliminate the problems leading to such suspension to promptly settle the cases.
5. Decisions to suspend the resolution of the civil lawsuits may be appealed against under appellate procedures.

Section 339. Original section/article: 216. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions on resuming the resolution of civil lawsuits Within 03 working days from the day on which the reasons to suspend the resolution of civil lawsuits prescribed in

Section 340. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are resolved, the Courts must issue decisions to resume the case resolution and send such decisions to the involved parties, the agencies/organizations/individuals initiating lawsuits and the procuracies of the same level.
Decisions on suspension of civil lawsuit‟s resolution shall expire since the decisions on resuming of civil lawsuit‟s resolution are issued. The Courts shall resume resolving the cases since the decisions on resuming of civil lawsuit‟s resolution are issued.

Section 341. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of the resolution of civil lawsuits 1. After accepting cases which fall within their respective jurisdiction, the Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the resolution of the civil lawsuits in the following circumstances:
a) The plaintiffs or defendants being individuals have died while their rights and obligations are not inherited;
b) Agencies or organizations have been dissolved or are bankrupt without any agencies, organizations or individuals inheriting their procedural rights and obligations;
c) The litigators withdraw all petitions for initiation of lawsuits or the plaintiffs are absent though having been duly summoned twice, unless they apply for trials in their absence or a force majeure event or an objective obstacle occurs;
d) The Courts have issued decisions to open bankruptcy procedures for enterprises or cooperatives being a party to the cases and the resolution of such cases is related to the obligations and property of such enterprises or cooperatives;
dd) plaintiffs fail to advance the charges for property price appraisal and other procedural charges prescribed in the Code.
If the defendants with counter-claims or persons with relevant interests and duties with independent claims fail to advance the property price appraisal and other procedural charges as prescribed in this Code, the Courts shall terminate the resolution of counter-claims or the independent claims of the persons with relevant interests and duties;
e) The involved parties have requested to apply the statute of limitations before the first-instance Courts issue the judgments/decisions on case resolution and the statute of limitations for lawsuit initiation expire;
g) Cases prescribed in clause 1

Section 342. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code that have been accepted by the Courts;
h) Other circumstances prescribed by law.
2. If the plaintiffs withdraw all petitions for lawsuit initiation or are absent without good and sufficient reasons or do not apply for trials in their absence though have been duly summoned twice and there are defendants applying for counter-claims and/or persons with relevant interests and duties applying for independent claims, the cases shall be resolved as follows:
a) If the defendants withdraw all the counter-claims and/or persons with relevant interests and duties withdraw all the independent claims, the Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the resolution of the cases;
b) If the defendants do not withdraw or withdraw only a part of the counter-claims, the Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the resolution of the petitions for lawsuits of plaintiffs; then the defendants shall become the plaintiffs and vice versa;
c) If the defendants withdraw all the counter-claims, persons with relevant interests and duties do not withdraw or withdraw only a part of the independent claims, the Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the resolution of the petitions for lawsuits of plaintiffs and/or counter-claims of defendants; then the persons with relevant interests and duties shall become the plaintiffs, persons who are sued according to independent claims shall become the defendants;
3. The Courts shall make decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits and cross out the civil cases in the acceptance books and return the petitions and accompanied materials and evidences to involved parties on request; in such cases, the Courts must make and retain copies of such petitions, documents and evidences to serve as basis for resolution of appeals and recommendations on request.
Within 03 working days from the day on which decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits are issued, the Courts shall send such decisions to involved parties, agencies, organizations and individuals initiating the lawsuits and procuracies of the same levels.
4. Regarding cases that are re-settled according to first-instance procedures, immediately when decisions to conduct cassation or reopening trials have been issued, if the Courts decide to terminate the resolution of the cases, the Courts shall also resolve the consequences of the enforcement of judgments and other relevant matters (if any); if the plaintiffs withdraw the petitions or are absent though have been duly summoned twice, the termination of the resolution of the cases must be agreed by the defendants and persons with relevant interests and duties.

Section 343. Original section/article: 218. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consequences of the termination of resolution of civil lawsuits 1. When the decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits are issued, the involved parties shall not be entitled to initiate lawsuits to request the Courts to re-settle such civil lawsuits if the institution of the subsequent cases does not bring in any difference from the previous cases in terms of the plaintiff, defendant and the disputed legal relations, except for cases prescribed in clause 3

Section 344. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and cases otherwise provided for by law.
2. In cases where the Courts issue decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits as provided for in points a and b Clause 1,

Section 345. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code or because the plaintiffs are absent though have been duly summoned twice as prescribed in point c clause 1

Section 346. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court fee advance money paid by the involved parties shall be confiscated by the State for public fund.
3. In cases where the Court issue decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits because the litigators withdraw all petitions for lawsuit initiation as provided for in point c and other cases specified in points d, dd, e and g clause 1

Section 347. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court fee advance money paid by the involved parties shall be refunded to the payers.
4. The decisions to terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits may be appealed against under appellate procedures.

Section 348. Original section/article: 219. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence to issue decisions to suspend, resume or terminate the resolution of civil lawsuits 1. Before the opening of the trial, the Judges who are assigned to resolve the civil lawsuits shall be competent to issue decisions to suspend/resume/terminate the resolution of such civil lawsuits.
2. In the Court session, the trial panels shall be competent to issue decisions to terminate/resume/terminate the resolution of the civil lawsuits.

Section 349. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to bring cases to trial 1. A decision to bring a case to trial shall contain the following principal details:
a) Date of issue of the decision;
b) Name of the Court issuing that decision;
c) The case to be brought to trial;
d) Name and address of the plaintiff, defendant or agency/organization/individuals initiating the lawsuit prescribed in

Section 350. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and persons with relevant interests and duties;
dd) Full names of the Judge, People‟s Juror, Court clerk and full names of the alternate Judge or alternate People‟s Juror (if any);
e) Full name of the procurator who takes part in the Court session, full name of alternate procurator (if any);
g) Time, date and venue of the Court session;
h) Public trial or closed trial;
i) Full names of persons who are summoned to the Court session.
2. Decisions to bring the cases to trial must be sent to the involved parties and the procuracies of the same level immediately within 03 working days from the day on which they are issued.
Where the procuracies participate in Court sessions as provided for in Clause 2,

Section 351. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts must send the case files and the decisions to bring a case to trial to the procuracies of the same level. Within 15 days from the day on which the documents are received, the procuracies must study then return the files to the courts.

Section 352. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Discovery and recommendation for amendment, supplement or annulment of legislative documents 1. During the course of civil lawsuit‟s resolution, if a legislative document related to the resolution of a civil lawsuit denotes contrariness against a Constitution, law or resolution of National Assembly, ordinance, resolution of Standing committee of National Assembly or a legislative document of a superior regulatory agency, the Court shall handle as follows:
a) If not any decisions to bring the case to trial is issued, the Judge assigned to resolve the case shall make a report and request the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of the case to issue
a writing requesting the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court to recommend a competent agency to consider amending, supplementing or annulling a legislative document;
b) If a decision to bring the case to trial has been issued or the case is being examined at the Court trial or is being adjudicated according to cassation/reopening procedure, the trial panel shall suspend the trial as prescribed in point e clause 1

Section 353. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and report the case to the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of the case so that he/she shall issue a writing requesting the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court to recommend a competent agency to consider amending, supplementing or annulling a legislative document.
2. Within 15 days from the day on which the written request by the Chief Justice of the inferior Court is received, the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court shall consider and handle as follows:
a) If the request is well-grounded, a written recommendation shall be issued and sent to the competent agency requesting for amendment, supplement or annulment of the legislative document and a notification shall be sent to the requesting Court so that it issues a decision to suspend the case resolution;
b) If the request is groundless, a written response shall be sent to the requesting Court so that it continues the case resolution according to law provisions.
3. Agencies receiving recommendation of the Court about the amendment, supplement or annulment of legislative documents shall handle as follows:
a) Regarding legislative documents detailing and/or guiding Constitutions, laws or resolutions of National Assembly or ordinances or resolutions of Standing Committee of National Assembly or legislative documents of superior regulatory agencies, within 01 month from the day on which the recommendation made by the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court is received, the agency issuing such documents must consider and send written response to the Supreme People‟s Court. When such time limit expires, if not any written response is received, the Court shall resolve the case pursuant to the documents with higher-level effect;
b) Regarding legislative documents being laws or resolutions of National Assembly or ordiances or resolutions of Standing committees of National Assembly, the provisions of the Law on promulgation of legislative documents shall be applied.
Chapter XIV FIRST-INSTANCE COURT SESSION

Section 354. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
GENERAL REGULATIONS ON FIRST-INSTANCE Court SESSIONS

Section 355. Original section/article: 222. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
General requirements for first-instance Court sessions The first-instance Court sessions must be conducted on the right times and at the right places written in the decisions to bring the cases to trial or in the notices on resuming the Court sessions in cases where the Court sessions have been postponed.

Section 356. Original section/article: 223. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Place of Court session Court sessions must be held at the offices of the Court or outside the Court, provided that the seriousness is ensured and the arrangement of the courtrooms shall conformed to regulations in

Section 357. Original section/article: 224. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Arrangement of courtrooms 1. The national emblem of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam shall be put up in the middle of the top of the wall behind the Trial Panel.
2. The courtroom must have areas exclusively reserved for the Trial Panel, Procurator, Court clerk, involved parties, defense counsels of lawful rights and interests of involved parties, other procedure participants and Court participants in the Court sessions.

Section 358. Original section/article: 225. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Direct and oral trial 1. The Courts must directly ascertain details and facts of the cases by listening to the presentations of the plaintiffs, the defendants, persons with related interests and duties, lawful representatives, defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties and other participants in the procedures and agencies and organizations invited to the Court session; questioning and listening to the answers; examining and verifying collected documents and evidences; directing and listening to the debates among the involved parties; listening to the opinions of the procuracy presented by procurators .
2. The trial must be oral trial and must be conducted in courtrooms.

Section 359. Original section/article: 226. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Replacement of Trial Panel members in special cases 1. Where Judges or People‟s Jurors cannot continue to participate in the trial, the trial may be continued if there are alternate Judges or People‟s Jurors present at the Court sessions from the beginning.
In cases where a Trial Panel consists of two Judges and the presiding Judge cannot continue to participate in the trial, the other Judge being member of the Trial Panel shall act as the presiding Judge of the Court session and the alternate Judge shall be added to be member of the Trial Panel.
2. In cases where there is no alternate Judge or People‟s Juror to replace a member of the Trial Panel, or where the presiding Judge of the Court session must be replaced while there is no Judge for replacement as provided for in Clause 1 of this Article, the case shall be retried from the beginning.

Section 360. Original section/article: 227. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presence of involved parties, their representatives and defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests 1. For the first time duly summoned by the Court, involved parties or their representatives and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests must be present at the Court session; if any of them is absent, the trial panel shall postpone the Court session, unless such person requests for trial in his/her absence.
The Courts must notify the involved parties, their representatives and defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the postponement of the Court session.
2. For the second time duly summoned by the Court, involved parties or their representatives and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests must be present at the Court session, unless they request for trials in their absence; if any of them is absent due to a force majeure event or an objective obstacle, the Court may postpone the Court session, otherwise the Court shall handle as follows:
a) If the plaintiff is absent and his/her representative does not participate in the Court session, such plaintiff shall be considered giving up the lawsuit initiation, thus the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the case resolution for his/her request for lawsuit initiation, unless such plaintiff requests for trials in their absence. The plaintiff may re-initiate lawsuits according to law provisions;
b) If the defendant without counter-claims or a person with relevant interests and duties without independent claims is absent and his/her representative does not participate in the Court session neither, then the Court shall direct the trial according to absence-trial procedure;
a) If the defendant has counter-claims but is absent and his/her representative does not participate in the Court session, such defendant shall be considered giving up the counter claims, thus the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the resolution for his/her counter claims, unless such defendant requests for trial in his/her absence. The defendant may re-initiate lawsuits for his/her counter-claims according to law provisions;
a) If the person with relevant interests and duties has independent claims but is absent and his/her representative does not participate in the Court session, such person shall be considered giving up the independent claims, thus the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the resolution for his/her independent claims, unless such person requests for trial in his/her absence. Such person may re-initiate lawsuits for his/her independent claims according to law provisions;
dd) If the defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties are absent, the Court shall direct the trial according to absence-trial procedures.

Section 361. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trial in absence of involved parties and/or defense counsels of their rights and interests from Court sessions The Courts shall proceed with the case adjudication in the following circumstances:
1. The plaintiff, the defendant or the persons with related interests and duties and their representatives are absent from Court sessions but such plaintiff/defendant/person with related interests and duties files an application to request the Courts to conduct the trial in their absence;
2. The plaintiff, the defendant or the persons with related interests and obligations, who are absent from Court sessions, have their lawful representatives to attend the Court sessions;
3. The cases prescribed in points b, c, d and dd clause 2

Section 362. Original section/article: 229. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presence of witnesses 1. Witnesses shall be obliged to attend Court sessions under Court subpoenas.
2. Where the witnesses are absent, the Trial Panels shall decide to keep adjudicating the cases or to postpone the court.
The Trial Panels shall keep adjudicating the cases if the witnesses are absent but have earlier given their testimonies in person or sent their testimonies to courts. The presiding Judges shall make such testimonies public.
The Trial Panels shall decide to postpone the Court sessions if the absence of the witnesses at Court creates difficulties or affects the objective and comprehensive resolution of the cases.
3. If the witnesses are absent from the Court sessions without good and sufficient reasons and such absence obstructs the adjudication, they can be escorted to the Court sessions under the decision of the trial panels, unless the witnesses are minors.

Section 363. Original section/article: 230. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presence of expert-witnesses 1. Expert-witnesses shall be obliged to attend Court sessions under Court subpoena to explain and answer issues relating to the expertise and expertising conclusions.
2. Where the expert-witnesses are absent, the Trial Panels shall decide to keep adjudicating the cases or postpone the Court sessions.

Section 364. Original section/article: 231. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presence of interpreters 1. Interpreters shall be obliged to attend the Court sessions under Court subpoena.
2. Where the interpreters are absent without substitutes, the Trial Panels shall decide to postpone the Court sessions.

Section 365. Original section/article: 232. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presence of procurators 1. The procurators assigned by the heads of the procuracies of the same level shall have the duty to attend the Court sessions. If the procurators are absent, the trial panels shall keep adjudicating and the Court sessions shall not be postponed.
2. Where the procurators are replaced in Court sessions or cannot continue to participate in the trial sessions and the alternate procurators are available, the latter may attend the Court sessions for continued trial over the cases if they are present at the Court session from the beginning.

Section 366. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for postponing a Court session and decision to postpone a Court session 1. The trial panels shall issue decisions to postpone a Court session in cases specified in clause 2

Section 367. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. Time limit for postponing a Court session shall not exceed 01 month or not exceed 15 days, applicable to Court carried out under simplified procedure, from the day on which the decision to postpone the Court session is issued.
2. A decision to postpone a Court session must contain the following principal details:
a) Date of issue of the decision;
b) Name of the Court and full names of presiding officers;
c) The case to be brought to trial;
d) Reasons for the postponement of the Court session;
dd) Time and venue for resumption of the Court session.
3. The decisions to postpone the Court sessions must be signed by the Judges presiding over the Court sessions on behalf of the trial panels and be publicly notified at the Court session. For absent persons, the Courts shall immediately send the decisions to them and concurrently to the procuracies of the same level.
4. In cases where the Courts cannot resume the Court sessions on the right time and at the right places inscribed in the decisions to postpone the Courts sessions, the Courts must immediately
notify the procuracies of the same level and procedure participants of the time and venues for re- opening the Court sessions.

Section 368. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Internal rules of Court sessions 1. When entering the courtroom, everyone shall conform to the security testing of the forces responsible for protecting the Court session.
2. Arms, murder weapons, explosives, flammable substances, poisons, radioactive substances, objects banned from circulation, leaflets, banners and other documents and objects affecting the seriousness of the Court sessions are prohibited from bringing into the Court sessions, except for exhibits serving the resolution of the cases or arms and tools that competent persons used for protecting the Court session.
3. Participants in a Court session at the request of the Court must present their subpoenas, invitations and other relevant papers to the Court reporter at clerk's desk at least 15 minutes before the opening time of the Court session and must take seats in the courtroom according to the guidance of the Court reporter; people who are late must present the required papers to the Court reporter via the security forces of the Court session.
4. Journalists attending a Court session to collect and communicate information about the happening of the Court session must comply with the direction of the presiding Judge of the Court session about press gallery. Journalists shall record audio or video of the trial panel only when allowed by the presiding Judge of the Court session. The recording of audio and video of involved parties or other participants in the procedure must be agreed by them.
5. Any one attending the Court sessions must wear serious costume and must respect the trial panel, keep silent and must comply with the direction of the presiding Judge.
6. Persons attending the Court sessions must not wear hats and color glasses in the courtrooms, unless they have plausible reasons and are permitted by the presiding Judge to do so; use of cell phones, smoking, eating, drinking and other acts affecting the solemnity of the Court sessions are not allowed in the courtrooms.
7. All participants in a Court sessions who are summoned by the Courts shall be present at the Court sessions throughout the course of trial, unless they are permitted by the presiding Judges to leave the courtrooms for plausible reasons.
People who are under 16 must not get into courtrooms, unless they are summoned by the Courts to attend the Court session.
8. All people in courtrooms must stand up when the Trial panel members enter the courtroom and when the judgments are pronounced, except for special cases where they are permitted to stay seated by the presiding Judges.
9. Only persons who are permitted by the Trial panel may raise or answer questions or express opinions. Persons must stand up while questioning, answering or expressing opinions, unless they are permitted by the presiding Judges to stay seated due to health conditions.

Section 369. Original section/article: 235. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for rendering Court judgments or decisions in Court sessions 1. Judgments must be discussed and adopted by the Trial Panels in the deliberation rooms.
2. Decisions to replace the procedure presiding officers, expert-witnesses, interpreters, to transfer the cases, to suspend or terminate the resolution of cases, or to postpone Court sessions, or decisions to recognize the agreement between involved parties or to suspend the Court session, must be discussed and adopted by the trial panel at the deliberation rooms and made in writing.
3. Decisions on other matters shall be discussed and adopted by the Trial Panels at the Court rooms and need not to be made in writing but must be recorded in the minutes of the Court sessions.

Section 370. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Minutes of Court sessions 1. Minutes of a Court session must be fully inscribed with the following details:
a) Main contents of the decision to bring the case to trial as stipulated in Clause 1 of

Section 371. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) All developments at the Court session from the beginning to the end;
c) Questions, answers and statements given at the Court session.
2. Apart from recording the minutes of Court sessions, the Trial Panels may make audio- recording and/or video-recording of the developments of the Court session.
3. At the end of a Court session, the presiding Judge of the Court session must examine the minutes and co-sign on the minutes with the Court reporter.
4. The procurator and procedure participants shall be entitled to read the minutes of the Court session immediately after the end of the Court session and request the inclusion of amendments or additions into the minutes and append the countersign.

Section 372. Original section/article: 237. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparing for the opening of a Court session Before the opening of a Court session, the Court reporter must perform the following jobs:
1. Briefing on the internal rules of the Court session.
2. Checking up on the absence or presence of the persons participating in the Court sessions under the court's subpoenas or notices; if any person is absent, the reasons therefor must be clarified.
3. Maintaining order in the Court room.
4. Requesting all people present in the Court room to stand up when the Trial Panel enters the Court room.

Section 373. Original section/article: 238. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for conducting trial in absence of all procedure participants 1. The Courts shall base themselves on materials and evidences included in the case files to conduct trials in the absence of involved parties and/or other procedure participants according to law provisions when the following conditions are fully satisfied:
a) The plaintiffs and/or their lawful representatives submit applications for trials in their absence;
b) The defendant, persons with relevant interests and duties and/or their lawful representatives submit applications for trials in their absence or are absent though have been duly summoned twice;
c) Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of plaintiffs, defendants or persons with relevant interests and duties submit applications for trials in their absence or are absent though have been duly summoned twice.
2. The presiding Judges of the Court session shall announce reasons for the absence of the involved parties or their applications for trials in their absence.
3. The presiding Judges of the Court session shall briefly announce the contents of the cases and materials and evidences included in the case files. The trial panel shall discuss matters to be settled in the cases.
4. Procurators shall present opinions of the procuracies.
5. The trial panels shall deliberate the cases and pronounce judgments according to regulations in this Code.

Section 374. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
PROCEDURES FOR COMMENCING A Court SESSION

Section 375. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Opening a Court session 1. The presiding Judge of the Court session shall open the Court session and read out the decision to bring the case to trial.
2. The Court reporter shall then report to the Trial Panel on the presence and absence of the persons participating in the Court session under the court's subpoenas or notices and the reasons for their absence.
3. The presiding Judge of the Court shall cross-check the presence of the participants in the Court session under the court's subpoenas or notices and examine identities of the involved parties and procedure participants.
4. The presiding Judge shall explain the rights and obligations of the involved parties and other procedure participants.
5. The presiding Judge shall introduce full names of the procedure presiding officers, expert- witnesses, interpreters.
6. The presiding Judge of the Court shall ask persons who are entitled to request the replacement of procedure presiding officers, expert-witnesses or interpreters to see if they wish to replace anyone.
7. The witnesses shall be requested to undertake to give truthful testimonies, if not, they will take legal responsibility, unless the witnesses are minors.
8. The expert-witnesses and the interpreters shall be requested to undertake to provide accurately the expertising results and to interpret accurately the contents to be interpreted.

Section 376. Original section/article: 240. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling requests for replacement of procedure conductors, expert-witnesses and/or interpreters In cases where certain persons request the replacement of procedure presiding officers, expert- witnesses and/or interpreters, the trial panels must consider and decide in accordance with procedures stipulated in this Code and may accept or not accept such request. In case of non- acceptance, the reasons therefor must be clearly stated.

Section 377. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Considering and deciding on the postponement of Court sessions upon someone's absence When any procedure participants are absent from Court sessions and they do not fall into the cases where the Courts must postpone the Court sessions, the presiding Judges must ask if there is any one requesting the postponement of the Court sessions. If there is, the Trial Panels shall consider and decide thereon according to the procedures stipulated in this Code and may accept or not accept such request. In case of non-acceptance, the reasons therefor must be clearly stated.

Section 378. Original section/article: 242. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Securing the objectivity of witnesses 1. Before asking the witnesses about matters they know, which are related to the resolution of the cases, the presiding Judges may decide to take necessary measures so that witnesses cannot hear each other's testimonies nor contact the relevant persons.
2. If the testimonies of the involved parties and the witnesses are interrelated, the presiding Judges may decide to isolate the involved parties from the witnesses before the witnesses are questioned.

Section 379. Original section/article: 243. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring the involved parties about change, supplementation or withdrawal of their claims Procedures for inquiring the involved parties about change, supplementation or withdrawal of their claims start when the presiding Judges ask the involved parties about the following matters:
1. Inquiring the plaintiffs to see whether or not they wish to change, supplement or withdraw part or whole of their lawsuit petitions;
2. Inquiring the defendants to see whether or not they wish to change, supplement or withdraw part or whole of their counter-claims;
3. Inquiring the persons with related interests and duties who make independent claims to see whether or not they wish to change, supplement or withdraw part or whole of their independent claims.

Section 380. Original section/article: 244. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Considering the change, supplementation or withdrawal of claims 1. The trial panels shall accept the change and/or supplementation of the involved parties' claims, if such change or supplementation does not fall beyond the scope of their original lawsuit petitions, counter-claims or independent claims.
2. Where an involved party voluntarily withdraws part or whole of his/her claim, the Trial Panel may accept such request and terminate the trial regarding the withdrawn part or whole of the claim.

Section 381. Original section/article: 245. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Changing the procedural status 1. Where the plaintiff withdraws the entire lawsuit claim, but the defendant still maintains his/her counterclaims, the defendant shall become the plaintiff and the plaintiff shall become the dependant.
2. Where the plaintiff withdraws the entire lawsuit claim and the defendant withdraws the entire counterclaims, but persons with related interests and duties still maintain their independent claims, the persons with related interests and duties shall become plaintiffs while the persons who are sued under the independent claims shall become defendants.

Section 382. Original section/article: 246. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recognizing the agreements of involved parties 1. The presiding Judge of the Court shall ask if the involved parties can reach an agreement about the case resolution. If the involved parties can voluntarily reach an agreement on the case resolution that is not contrary the law or social ethics, the trial panel shall issue decisions on recognition of the agreement between involved parties on the case resolution
2. The Court decisions recognizing the involved parties' agreements on the resolution of the cases shall take legal effect as prescribed in

Section 383. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
ORAL ARGUMENT IN Court SESSIONS

Section 384. Original section/article: 257. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Contents and mode of oral argument in Court sessions 1. Oral argument at the Courts include the presentation of evidences, questioning and answering and the expression of opinions and argument about evidences and details of the civil lawsuits or disputes and the applicable law provisions for the resolution of petitions of involved parties in the cases.
2. The oral argument at the Courts shall be conducted according to the direction of the Presiding Judge of the Court session.
3. The Presiding Judge must not limit the duration of the oral argument and must enable persons who participate in the argument to present fully their opinions; however, the Presiding Judge shall be entitled to request such persons to stop presenting contents irrelevant to the cases.

Section 385. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presentation of defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties 1. In cases where certain involved parties still maintain their claims and cannot reach agreements on the resolution of the cases, the involved parties shall present in the following order:
a) The defense counsels of the plaintiff's legitimate rights and interests shall present the plaintiff's claims and evidences to prove that their claims are well-grounded and lawful. The plaintiff shall be entitled to give additional opinions.
In cases where agencies or organization institute the cases, their representatives shall present the lawsuit claims and evidences to prove that their lawsuit claims are well-grounded and lawful;
b) The defense counsels of the defendant's legitimate rights and interests shall present the defendant's opinions on the plaintiff's claims; the defendant's counter-claims and proposals as well as evidences to prove that such proposals are well grounded and lawful. The defendant shall be entitled to give additional opinions.
c) The defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of persons with related rights and obligations shall present the latter's opinions on the claims and proposals of the plaintiff and the defendant; independent claims and proposals of the persons with related rights and obligations as well as evidences to prove that such proposals are well grounded and lawful.
The persons with related interests and duties shall be entitled to give additional opinions.
2. In cases where the plaintiff, the defendant or the persons with related interests and duties have no defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests, they shall present by themselves their claims and proposals as well as evidences to prove that such claims and proposals are well grounded and lawful.
3. At the Court sessions, the involved parties and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interest are entitled to supplement evidences as prescribed in clause 4

Section 386. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code to prove their respective claims and proposals.

Section 387. Original section/article: 249. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Order and principle of inquiring in Court session 1. When the presentations of the involved parties finish and the defense counsels of rights and interests of the involved parties, according to provisions of

Section 388. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and under the direction of the Presiding Judge of the Court session, the order of inquiring in Court session shall be:
a) The plaintiffs, defense counsels of rights and interests of the plaintiffs; the defendants, defense counsels of rights and interests of the defendants; persons with relevant interests and duties, defense counsels of rights and interests of persons with relevant interests and duties;
b) Other procedure participants;
c) The Judge of the Court session, People‟s Jurors;
d) Procurators participating in the Court session.
2. Questions for the inquiry must be clear, serious, unduplicated and the questioners must not misuse the inquiry to infringe upon honor and dignity of procedure participants.

Section 389. Original section/article: 250. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring plaintiffs 1. In cases where there are more than one plaintiff, they shall be inquired and separately one by one.
2. The plaintiffs shall be inquired only about matters presented by themselves or by the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests which are unclear, inconsistent or contradictory to their previous testimonies, or contradictory to the presentations of the defendant, the persons with related rights and obligations and/or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests.
3. Plaintiffs may themselves reply or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests may rely on their behalf, then the plaintiffs may give additional answers.

Section 390. Original section/article: 251. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring defendants 1. In cases where there is more than one defendant, each defendant shall be inquired separately.2. The defendants shall only be inquired about matters which have been unclearly presented by themselves or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests or have been inconsistent or contradictory to their previous testimonies, or contradictory to the claims of the plaintiffs or the persons with related rights and obligations and/or the defense counsels of their legitimate right and interests.
3. Defendants may answer questions by themselves or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests answer on their behalf before the defendants give additional answers.

Section 391. Original section/article: 252. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring persons with related interests and obligations 1. In cases where there are more than one person with related interests and obligations, each of them shall be inquired separately.
2. The persons with related interests and obligations shall only be inquired about matters which have been unclearly presented by themselves or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests or have been inconsistent or contradictory to their previous testimonies, or contradictory to the claims of the plaintiffs or the persons with related rights and obligations and/or the defense counsels of their legitimate right and interests.
3. Persons with related rights and obligations may answer questions by themselves or the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests answer on their behalf before they give additional answers.

Section 392. Original section/article: 253. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring witnesses 1. Before questioning witnesses, the presiding Judges shall ask clearly about the relations between them and parties involved in the cases; if witnesses are minors, the presiding Judges may request their parents, guardians or teachers to help in the inquiries. In cases where there is more than one witness, each of them shall be inquired separately.
2. The presiding Judges shall request the witnesses to present details about the cases that they know. After the witnesses complete their presentations, they may only be further questioned about points which they have presented unclearly, incompletely or inconsistently or which have been contradictory to their previous testimonies, contradictory to the presentations of the involved parties and/or the defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests.
3. After completing their presentations, the witnesses shall stay in the Court rooms so that they may be further questioned.
4. In cases where it is necessary to secure the safety of the witnesses or their relatives, the Trial Panels may decide not to disclose information on their personal records and must keep them from being seen by attendants to the Court sessions.
5. involved parties and defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests may question the witnesses after agreed by the presiding Judges of the Court session.

Section 393. Original section/article: 254. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Public disclosure of materials and evidences of the cases 1. The Trial Panel shall publicly disclose materials and evidences of a case in the following cases:
a) Procedure participants are absent from Court sessions but have given their testimonies during adjudication preparation;
b) Testimonies given in Court sessions by procedure participants are contradictory to their previous testimonies;
c) In other cases that the trial panel considers necessary or at the request of procurators, involved parties, defense counsels of rights and interests of involved parties, other procedure participants.
2. In special cases where it is necessary to keep State secrets, to preserve the nation's fine customs and practices, to keep professional secrets, business secrets, private secrets or family secrets or to protect minor people at the requests of the involved parties, the trial panels shall not disclose documents included in the case files.

Section 394. Original section/article: 255. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Listening to audio-tapes and/or discs, watching video tapes and/or discs and other audio/video-recording devices At the request of the involved parties, defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests, procedure participants or procurators or when deeming it necessary, the Trail Panels may arrange for the audio tapes and/or discs to be listened to, and/or video tapes and/or discs and/or other audio/video recording devices to be screened in Court sessions, except for the cases stipulated in Clause 2 of

Section 395. Original section/article: 256. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Examining exhibits Exhibits, photos or records certifying exhibits shall be presented for examination in Court sessions.
When necessary, the trial panel, together with the involved parties, may conduct an on-site inspection of the exhibits that cannot be brought to the Court session.

Section 396. Original section/article: 257. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inquiring expert-witnesses 1. The presiding Judges shall request the expert-witnesses to present their conclusions on matters they have been assigned to expertise. During their presentations, the expert-witnesses may give additional explanations on the expertising conclusions and the grounds to make such conclusions.
2. Procurators and procedure participants present in Court sessions shall be entitled to give comments on the expertising conclusions, to ask about matters which are unclear or contradictory in the expertising conclusions or contradictory to other details of the cases.
3. In cases where the expert-witnesses are absent from Court sessions, the presiding Judges shall publicly disclose the expertising conclusions.
4. When any involved parties or defense counsels of rights and interests of involved parties disagrees with the expertising conclusions publicly disclosed in Court sessions and request the expert-witnesses to make additional expertise or re-expertise, if deeming that the additional expertise or the re-expertise is necessary for the settlement of the cases, the Trial Panels shall decide on the additional expertise or re-expertise; in this case, the Trial Panels shall decide to postpone the Court sessions according to provisions in point d clause 1

Section 397. Original section/article: 258. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Concluding the inquiries in Court sessions When deeming that the case details have been fully examined, the presiding Judges shall ask the procurators, the involved parties, the defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties and other procedure participants whether they request to ask about any matters or not; in cases where someone has such request and he/she deems that such request is well grounded, the presiding Judges shall decide to continue the inquiries.

Section 398. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Postponement of Court sessions 1. During the process of adjudication, the trial panel shall be entitled to make decisions to postpone the Court session in any of the following cases:
a) Due to health conditions or due to a force majeure event or an objective obstacle, the proceeding officer cannot continue with the Court session, unless the proceeding officer can be replaced;
b) Due to health conditions or due to a force majeure event or an objective obstacle, the procedure participant cannot continue participating in the Court session, unless the presiding officer apply for trial in their absence;
c) Cases where materials and/or evidences must be verified or additional collected to resolve the cases and such activities could not be carried out at the court;
d) Cases where the additional expertising results or the re-expertising results have not been made and must be waited for;
dd) Involved parties agree to request the Court to postpone the Court session so that they will conduct mediation themselves;
e) Cases which must be reported to the Chief Justice of the Courts to apply for amendment and/or supplement or repeal of legislative documents as prescribed in

Section 399. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. The postponement of the Court sessions must be recorded in minutes. Duration of the postponement of the Court sessions must not exceed 01 month from the day on which the trial panels make decisions to postpone the Court sessions. When such time expires, if the reasons for the postponement do not exist anymore, the trial panels shall resume the Court sessions; otherwise, the trial panels shall make decisions to suspend the resolution of the lawsuits. The trial panels must send written notification to procedure participants and the procuracies of the same levels about the time for resuming the Court sessions.

Section 400. Original section/article: 260. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Order for making arguments 1. At the end of the inquiring process, the Trial Panels shall move on to the arguments in Court sessions. The order for making arguments shall be as follows:
a) The defense counsels of the plaintiffs' legitimate rights and interests shall make their presentations. The plaintiff shall be entitled to give additional opinions. In cases where agencies or organizations initiate lawsuits, the representatives of such agencies or organizations shall present their opinions. The persons having their rights and interests protected may give additional comments;
b) Defense counsels of the defendants' legitimate rights and interests shall present counter- arguments. The defendant shall be entitled to give additional opinions.
c) Defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of persons with related interests and duties shall make presentations. The persons with related interests and duties shall be entitled to give additional opinions;
d) Involved shall present their arguments and counter-arguments according to the control of the presiding Judges;
dd) When it is deemed necessary, the trial panels may request involved parties to make additional argument about specific matters that are used as grounds for the resolution of the cases.
2. In cases where the plaintiffs, the defendants or persons with related interests and duties have no one to defend their legitimate rights and interests, they shall themselves make presentations during the arguments.
3. If any of the involved parties or other participants is absent, the presiding Judges of the Court sessions shall publicly disclose his/her testimonies so that involved parties present at the courtroom could make arguments and responses.

Section 401. Original section/article: 261. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presentations during arguments and responses When making presentations on the assessment of evidences or expressing their views on the resolution of cases, persons participating in the arguments must base themselves on documents and evidences that have been collected, examined and verified in Court sessions as well as results of the inquiring process in Court sessions. They may respond to the opinions of others.

Section 402. Original section/article: 262. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presentations of procurators When procedure participants have present their arguments and responses, the procurators shall give opinions about the compliance of the Judges, trial panels, Court reporters and other procedure participants with procedure law during the course of resolution of the cases, from the acceptance to the deliberation and about the case resolution.
Immediately when the Court sessions finish, the procurators must send the writings containing their opinions to the Courts so that the Courts save such documents to the case files.

Section 403. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Resuming inquiries and arguments Through arguments, if deeming that details of the cases have not been considered, or have been considered insufficiently, or it is necessary to additionally examine evidences, the trial panels shall decide to resume the inquiring process.

Section 404. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
DELIBERATION AND PRONOUNCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS

Section 405. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Deliberation 1. At the end of arguments, the trial panels enter the deliberation rooms to deliberate the cases.
2. Only members of the trial panels are allowed to participate in the deliberation. During the deliberation, the trial panel members must base themselves on materials and evidences examined at the Court sessions, the results of arguments at the Court sessions and law provisions; if the cases are of cases specified in clause 2

Section 406. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the trial members must also base themselves on customs The People‟s Jurors shall vote first while the presiding Judges shall vote last. The minority may express their opinions in writing which shall be recorded in the case files.
3. Deliberation must be recorded in minutes specifying all opinions discussed and decisions of the trial panels. The deliberation records must be signed at the deliberation rooms by all members of the trail panels before the judgments are pronounced.
4. Where the cases involve many complicated circumstances and the deliberation requires a longer time, the trial panels may decide on the deliberation time limit which, however, shall not exceed 05 working days since the end of arguments in Court sessions.
The trial panels must inform all persons present in Court sessions and the absent procedure participants of the hours, date and place where the judgments shall be pronounced If the trial panels have made the notification while some proceeding participants are absent, the trial panels shall still proceed with the pronouncement of judgments as provided for in

Section 407. Original section/article: 265. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Resumption of inquiries and arguments 
Through deliberation, if deeming that details of the cases have not been considered, the inquiries have not been sufficient or evidences should be further examined, the trial panels may decide to resume the inquiries and arguments.

Section 408. Original section/article: 266. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
First-instance judgments 1. Courts shall render judgments in the name of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
2. A judgment shall contain an introduction, contents of the case and assessment of the court, and the court's decision. To be specific:
a) The introduction section of the judgment must clearly state the name of the first-instance court; the serial number and date of the case acceptance; the serial number of the judgment and the date of judgment pronouncement; full names of the members of the trial panel, the Court reporter, the procurators, expert-witnesses and interpreter; full names and addresses of the plaintiff, defendant, persons with related interests and duties; agencies, organizations or individuals initiating the lawsuit; the lawful representatives, the defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties; matters under dispute; the serial number and date of the decision to bring the case to trial; form of trial: public trial or closed trial; time and place of trial;
b) The contents of the cases and assessment of the Court must contain the lawsuit petition of the plaintiff, lawsuit petition of agency/organization/individual; counter-claims and/or requests of the defendant; independent claims and/or requests of persons with related interests and duties.
The Court must base themselves on materials and evidences examined at the Court session and result of argument at the Court session to analyze and assess comprehensively and objectively details of the case and legal bases; if the case is of those specified in clause 2

Section 409. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the customs, the provisions applicable to same matters, basic principles of civil laws, legal precedents or the justice shall be based on when deciding to or to not approve the petitions/requests of the involved parties or representatives of their legitimate rights and interests and resolving relevant matters.
c) The court‟s decision must state legal grounds, decisions of the trial panel on each matter to be resolved in the case, on the application of provisional emergency measures, Court fees, procedural charges and right to appeal against the judgment; in cases where there are decisions which must be executed immediately, such decisions must be clearly stated.
3. When retrying cases of which judgments or decisions have been partial or wholly cancelled according to cassation/reopening decisions, the Court shall resolve all issues pertaining to properties and/or duties that have been executed (if any) according to legally effective judgments and decisions that are cancelled; such shall be recorded in the judgment.

Section 410. Original section/article: 267. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Pronouncing judgments The Trial panels shall pronounce the judgments in the presence of involved parties, representatives of agencies/organizations/individuals initiating lawsuits. If the involved parties are present during the Court session but are absent at the time of pronouncing judgments or in cases specified in clause 4

Section 411. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the judgment shall be still pronounced by the trial panels.
Upon the pronouncement of a judgment, all people in the courtroom must rise up, except for special cases permitted by the presiding Judge. The presiding Judge or another member of the
trial panel reads out the judgment and may give further explanation of the judgment execution and the right to appeal.
If Court conducts the trial behind closed doors as prescribed in clause 2

Section 412. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the trial panel shall publicly pronounce only the beginning and the decisions in the judgment.
If the involved parties need interpreters, the interpreters shall interpret the parts of judgment that are publicly pronounced.

Section 413. Original section/article: 268. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Amendment or supplementation of judgments 1. A judgment, once pronounced must not be amended or supplemented, except where obvious mistakes in spelling, in data due to confusion or miscalculation are detected.
2. If the judgment needs to be amended or supplemented as prescribed in clause 1 of this Article, the Judge shall cooperate with People‟s Jurors being members of the trial panel making such judgment to issue a decision on amendment and/or supplement of the judgment and immediately send it to the involved parties, agencies/organizations/individuals initiating the lawsuit, procuracy of the same level and civil judgment-executing bodies if the judgment has been sent to such civil judgment-executing bodies.
In cases where the Judge in charge of the case no longer hold the Judge's position at the Court making such judgment, the courts' Chief Justices shall carry out such amendment or supplementation.

Section 414. Original section/article: 269. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Supplying judgment extracts and judgments 1. Within 03 working days after the end of a Court session, the involved parties, agencies, organizations or individuals initiating the lawsuits shall be supplied with judgment extracts by the court.
2. Within 10 days as from the date of judgment pronouncement, the Court shall hand over or send the judgment to the involved parties, agencies, organizations or individuals initiating the lawsuit and the procuracy of the same level.
3. An effective first-instance judgment of the Court about resolution of civil lawsuit pertaining to interests of consumers initiated by a social organization protecting interests of consumers must be publicly posted at the office of the Court and must be publicly posted on one of central or local dailies for three consecutive issues.
An effective first-instance judgment of the Court relevant to the compensation responsibility of the State must be sent to State management agencies competent in state compensation by the Court.
An effective first-instance judgment of the Court relevant to the change of civil status of an individual must be notified by the Court in writing enclosed with judgment extracts to People‟s Committee where such individual registered for civil status as prescribed in the Law on civil status.
Time limit for public disclosure, posting or delivery of judgments and notices prescribed in this clause is 05 working days from the day on which the judgment takes legal effect.
4. Effective first-instance judgments of the Court shall be posted on e-portal of the Court (if any), except for court‟s judgments/decisions containing information specified in clause 2

Section 415. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
PART THREE PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF CASES AT APPELLATE COURTS 
Chapter XV NATURE OF APPELLATE TRIAL AND THE APPEAL AGAINST JUDGMENTS, 
DECISIONS OF FIRST-INSTANCE COURTS

Section 416. Original section/article: 270. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nature of appellate trial Appellate trial means the re-trial by the appellate Court of a case with the first-instance court's judgment or decision having not yet taken legal effect and being appealed against.

Section 417. Original section/article: 271. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Persons having the right to appeal The involved parties or their representatives, agencies, organizations or individuals initiating lawsuits shall have the right to lodge their appeals against judgments or decisions of the first- instance Courts to suspend or terminate the resolution of lawsuits in order to request the appellate Courts to conduct re-trials according to the appellate procedures.

Section 418. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for an appeal 1. When exercising his/her right to appeal, the appellant shall formulate an application for appeal. An application for an appeal must have the following principal contents:
a) Date on which the application is made;
b) Name, address; phone number, fax number, e-mail address (if any) of the appellant;
c) The section of judgment or decision of the first-instance Court which has not yet taken legal effect and is appealed;
d) The reason(s) for appealing and the appellant's claims.
dd) Signature or fingerprint of the appellant.
2. Any appellant being individual who has fully civil procedure act capacity may formulate application for appeal himself/herself. Regarding the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the application form, full name, address, phone number, fax number, e-mail address (if any) of the appellant must be written. At the end of the application form, the appellant must append his/her signature or fingerprint.
3. For appellant specified in clause 2 of this Article, if the appellant cannot apply for appeal himself/herself, he/she may authorize a representative to conduct the application for appeal. Regarding the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the application form, full name and address of the proxy representative of the appellant; phone number, fax number, e-mail address (if any) of the appellant must be written and the written authorization for conduct application for appeal must be enclosed therewith. At the end of the application form, the proxy representative of appellant must append his/her signature or fingerprint.
4. Lawful representatives of involved parties being agencies or organizations may make appeal themselves. Regarding the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the application form,
names, addresses, phone numbers, fax numbers, e-mail addresses (if any) of the involved parties being agencies, organizations and full names and positions of the lawful representatives of the involved parties being must be written. At the end of the application form, the lawful representatives must append signature and affix seal of such agencies/organizations; if the appellant is an enterprise, the seal shall be used according to provisions of the Law on Enterprise.
If the lawful representatives of involved parties being agencies/organizations authorize other persons to conduct appeal, at the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the application form, full names and addresses of the lawful representatives of such agencies/organizations; phone numbers, fax numbers, e-mail addresses (if any) of the agencies/organizations; full names, positions of lawful representatives of such agencies/organizations must be written and written authorizations must be enclosed therewith. At the end of the application form, the proxy representative of appellant must append his/her signature or fingerprint.
5. The lawful representatives of the involved parties being minors or legally incapacitated persons may formulate application for appeal by themselves. At the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the form, full names and addresses of the lawful representatives; full names and addresses of involved parties being minors or legally incapacitated persons must be written. At the end of the application form, the proxy representatives of appellant must append their signatures or fingerprints.
If the lawful representatives of involved parties authorize other persons to conduct appeal, at the blanks for name and address of the appellant on the application form, full names and addresses of the authorized representatives; full names and addresses of the lawful representatives of the involved parties; full names and addresses of involved parties being minors or legally incapacitated persons must be written and the written authorization must be enclosed therewith. At the end of the application form, the proxy representatives of appellant must append their signatures or fingerprints.
6. The authorization specified in clauses 3, 4 and 5 of this Article must be carried out under written authorizations that are lawfully notarized and authenticated, except for cases where such authorizations are formulated under the witness of the Judges or persons assigned by the Chief Justices. The written authorizations must contain the contents of the judgments/decisions on suspension/termination of the cases issued by the first-instance Courts that the involved parties authorized the proxy representatives to file appeals against.
7. The appeal application must be filed with the first-instance Court which rendered the first- instance-judgment or decision being appealed against. Where the appeal application is filed with the appellate Court, the appellate Court must transfer the application to the first-instance Court for carrying out necessary procedures and sending the case file to the appellate Court as provided for in this Code.
8. The appeal application must be accompanied with additional materials and/or evidences (if any) to prove that their appeals are well-grounded and lawful.

Section 419. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for an appeal 1. The time limit for an appeal against the first-instance court's judgment is 15 days as from the date of judgment pronouncement; for the involved parties or representatives of agencies/organizations/individuals initiating lawsuits being absent from the Court sessions or absent when the Court pronounces the judgment with good and sufficient reason, the time limit
for an appeal shall be counted from the date the judgment is handed to them or publicly posted up.
For cases where involved parties, representatives of agencies/organizations/individuals initiating lawsuits are present in Court sessions but absent when the Court pronounces the judgment without good and sufficient reason, time limit for an appeal shall be counted from the date of judgment pronouncement.
2. The time limit for an appeal against the first-instance court's decision on to suspend or terminate the resolution of the case is 07 days counting from the day on which the involved parties and the agencies, organizations and individuals initiating lawsuits receive the decision or from the day on which the decision is posted up as prescribed in this Code.
3. For cases where the appeal applications are sent by post, time limit for an appeal shall be determined pursuant to the date written on the post seal of the sending post office. If the appellant is incurring a detainment, the date of appeal shall be the day on which the appeal application is certified by the prison officers.

Section 420. Original section/article: 274. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Examination of appeal applications 1. After receiving the appeal applications, the first-instance Courts must examine their validity as provided for in

Section 421. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. In case of overdue appeals, the first-instance Courts shall request the appellants to further explain the reasons therefor and provide materials and/or evidences (if any) to prove that the reasons for late submission of their appeal applications are plausible.
3. Where the appeal applications are made not in compliance with the provisions of

Section 422. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the first-instance Courts shall request the appellants to amend or supplement them.
4. An appeal application shall be returned by the Court in the following cases:
a) The appellant is not entitled to file an appeal;
b) The appellant fails to make another appeal application or fails to amend or supplement the appeal application at the request of the Court as prescribed in clause 3 of this Article.
c) Cases specified in clause 2

Section 423. Original section/article: 275. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Overdue appeals and consideration for overdue appeals 1. Appeals that are not made within the time limit stipulated in

Section 424. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall be the overdue appeals. After receiving overdue appeal applications, the first-instance Courts must forward the applications and the appellants' explanation of the reasons for late filing the appeals, materials and/or evidences (if any) to the appellate Courts.
2. Within 10 days after receiving the overdue appeal applications and the accompanied materials and/or evidences, the Courts of appeal shall set up a Panel consisting of three Judges to consider the overdue appeals. The meetings for considering overdue appeals must be under the presence of representatives of the procuracies of the same level and the overdue appeal applicants. If the appellants and/or the procurators are absent, the meetings shall be still carried on by the Court.
3. Pursuant to materials and evidences related to the overdue appeals, opinions of the overdue appeal applicants and representatives of the procuracies at the meetings, the overdue-appeal- considering Panel shall issue decisions under the majority rule on the acceptance or refusal of the
overdue appeals that contain explanation for such acceptance or refusal. The appellate Courts must send their decisions to the overdue appeal applications, the first-instance Courts and the procuracies of the same level. If the appellate Courts accept the overdue appeals, the first- instance Courts shall carry out procedures stipulated in this Code.

Section 425. Original section/article: 276. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notification of payment of appellate Court fee advance 1. After accepting the valid appeal applications the first-instance Courts must notify the appellants thereof so that they pay the appellate Court fee advances as required by law, if they do not fall cases of being exempt from, or having not to pay, the appellate Court fee advances.
2. Within 10 days as from the day on which the courts' notifications of payment of the appellate Court fee advances are received, the appellants must pay the Court fee advances and submit to the first-instance Courts the receipts of the payment of Court fee advances. After such time limit, if the appellants fail to pay the appeal fee Court advances, they shall be deemed to have given up their appeals, unless they have plausible reasons therefor.
If the appellants pay submit the Court the receipts of the payment of Court fee advances after 10 days as from the day on which the courts' notifications of payment of the appellate Court fee advances are received without explanation, the first-instance Courts shall request the appellant to send a writing presenting reasons for the lateness of submission of such receipts to the first- instance Courts within 03 working days from the day on which the courts‟ notifications are received to be recorded in the case files. Such cases shall be settled according to the overdue appeal consideration procedures.

Section 426. Original section/article: 277. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notice of appeal 1. After receiving the valid appeal applications, the first-instance Courts must notify such in writing to the procuracies of the same level and the involved parties, enclosed with copies of the appeal applications and additional materials and evidences that the appellants enclosed with the appeal applications.
2. Involved parties relevant to the appeal who are notified of the appeals shall be entitled to send to the appellate Courts documents expressing their opinions on the appealed matters. Such documents shall be included in the case files.

Section 427. Original section/article: 278. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeal by procuracies The head of the procuracy of the same level or the immediate superior level shall be entitled to appeal against the first-instance court's judgments or decisions to suspend or terminate the resolution of the cases in order to request the immediate superior Court to directly settle the cases according to the appellate procedures.

Section 428. Original section/article: 279. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeal decisions of procuracies 1. The procuracies' appeal decisions must be made in writing and contain the following principal contents:
a) Issuing date and serial number of the appeal decision;
b) Name of the procuracy that issues the appeal decision;
c) Appealed sections of parts or the whole first-instance court's judgments or decisions which have not yet taken legal effect;
d) Reason(s) for such appeal and the procuracy's claims.
dd) Full name of the person signing the appeal decision and seal of the procuracy issuing the appeal decision.
2. The appeal decisions must be immediately sent to the first-instance Courts that have rendered the appealed judgments or decisions so that such Courts shall carry out procedures stipulated by this Code and send the case files to the appellate Courts as provided for in

Section 429. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Enclosed with the appeal decisions shall be additional documents and/or evidences (if any) to prove that the procuracies' appeals are well grounded and lawful.

Section 430. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for an appeal 1. The time limit for making an appeal against a first-instance court's judgment shall be 15 days for the procuracy of the same level and 1 month for the immediate superior procuracy, counting from the date of judgment pronouncement. In cases where the procurators do not attend the Court sessions, the appeal time limit shall be counted from the day on which the procuracy of the same level receives the judgment.
2. The time limit for making an appeal against the first-instance court's decision on suspension or termination of the resolution of the case shall be 07 days for procuracy of the same level and 10 days for immediate superior procuracy, counting from the day on which the procuracy of the same level receives such decision.
3. If the Court receives the appeal decision from the procuracy after the time limit prescribed in clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the first-instance Court shall request the procuracy to provide explanation in writing.

Section 431. Original section/article: 281. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notification of appeals 1. The procuracy issuing an appeal decision must promptly send the appeal decision to the parties relating to the appeal.
2. Persons who are notified of the appeal shall be entitled to send to the appellate Court documents expressing their views on the appealed matters. Such documents shall be included in the case files.

Section 432. Original section/article: 282. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effects of an appeal 1. First-instance courts‟ judgments/decisions or parts thereof that are appealed against shall not be enforced, except where the law requires the immediate enforcement thereof.
2. The first-instance courts' judgments/decisions or parts thereof which are not appealed against shall take legal effect as from the day on which the appeal time limit expires.

Section 433. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding case files and appeals The first-instance Courts must forward case files, appeals and accompanying materials and evidences to the appellate Courts within 05 working days from the date:
1. The time limit for an appeal expires;
2. The appeal time limit expires and the appellant has submitted the receipt of the payment of appellate Court fee advance to the first-instance court.

Section 434. Original section/article: 284. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Modifying, supplementing, withdrawing appeals 1. If the time limit for appeal specified in

Section 435. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code has not expired, the appellant is entitled to modify or supplement the appeal regardless of the scope of the original appeal.
If the time limit for appeal specified in

Section 436. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code has not expired, the procuracy shall be entitled to modify or supplement the appeal regardless of the scope of the original appeal.
2. Before the opening of appellate Court sessions or in appellate Court sessions, the appellants may modify or supplement their appeals and the procuracies issuing appeal decisions may modify or supplement their appeals, provided that the modification or supplementation must not go beyond the scope of the original appeals or appeals, if the appeal or appeal time limit has expired.
3. Before the opening of appellate Court sessions or in appellate Court sessions, the appellants may withdraw their appeals and the procuracies issuing appeal decisions or the immediate superior procuracy may withdraw their appeals.
The appellate Courts shall terminate the appellate trial over parts of the cases against which the appellants have withdrawn their appeals or the procuracies have withdrawn their appeals.
The termination of the appellate trials before the opening of the appellate Court sessions shall be decided by the presiding Judges of the Court sessions; the termination of the appellate trials in the Court sessions shall be decided by the trial panels.
4. The modification, supplementation or withdrawal of appeals before the opening of appellate Court sessions must be made in writing and sent to the appellate courts. The appellate Courts must notify involved parties of the modification, supplement or withdrawal of appeals and notify the procuracies of the same level of the modification, supplement or withdrawal of the appeals.
The modification, supplementation or withdrawal of appeals in Court sessions must be recorded in the minutes of the Court sessions.
Chapter XVI PREPARATION FOR AN APPELLATE TRIAL

Section 437. Original section/article: 285. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Acceptance of appellate trial 1. Immediately after receiving the case files, appeals and accompanying materials and evidences, the appellate Courts must record them to the acceptance books.
Within 03 working days from the date of judgment acceptance, the Court shall send written notifications to involved parties, agencies, organizations and individuals initiating lawsuits and procuracy of the same level informing that it has accepted the petition; such information shall be also posted on e-portal of the Court (if any).
2. The Chief Justice of the appellate Court shall set up an appellate trial panel and assign a Judge to be the presiding Judge of the Court session.

Section 438. Original section/article: 286. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for preparation for appellate trials 1. Within 02 months as from the day on which the petition is accepted, the competent Court shall, on a case-by-case basis, issue one of the following decisions:
a) To suspend the appellate trial over the cases;
b) To terminate the appellate trial over the cases;
c) To bring a case to appellate trial.
Regarding complicated cases or due to force majeure events or objective obstacles, the Chief Justices of the appellate Courts may issue decisions to extend the time limit for preparation for appellate trial for not exceeding 01 month.
2. Within 01 month form the day on which the decision to bring a case to trial is issued, the Court shall open an appellate Court session; if there is good and sufficient reason, such period shall be 02 months.
3. If there is a decision to suspend the appellate trial over the case, time limit for preparation for the appellate trial shall be calculated from the day on which the decision to resume the lawsuit settlement issued by the Court takes legal effect.
4. Time limit prescribed in this Article shall not be applicable to cases that are appealed according to simplified procedures and cases involving foreign elements.

Section 439. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Provision of materials and evidences during the preparation for appellate trial 1. Involved parties are entitled to supplement the following materials and evidences during the preparation for appellate trial:
a) Materials and evidences requested by the first-instance Court that have not been provided by the involved parties due to good and sufficient reason;
b) Materials and evidences not requested by the first-instance Court or
2. Procedures for supplying materials and/or evidences shall be conformable with provisions of

Section 440. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Suspension of the appellate trial 1. If the appellate Court issues a decision to suspend the appellate trial over a case, the effects of such suspensions and the resumption of appellate trial shall conform to provisions of Articles 214, 215 and 216 of this Code.
2. A decision to suspend the appellate trial over a case shall be effective immediately and shall be immediately sent to involved parties, agencies/organizations/individuals initiating the lawsuit and the procuracy of the same level.

Section 441. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of the appellate trial 1. The appellate Court shall issue a decision to suspend the appellate trial over a case or a part of a case in the following cases:
a) Cases specified in points a and b clause 1

Section 442. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) The appellant withdraw the whole appeal or the procuracy withdraw the whole appeal;
c) The appellant withdraw a part of the appeal or the procuracy withdraw a part of the appeal;
d) Other cases as prescribed by law.
2. If the appellant withdraws the whole appeal or the procuracy withdraws the whole appeal before the appellate Court issues the decision to bring a case to appellate trial, the decision to terminate the appellate trial shall be issued by the Judge assigned to preside the Court session; if the appellant withdraws the whole appeal or the procuracy withdraws the whole appeal when the Court has issued the decision to bring a case to appellate trial, the decision to terminate the appellate trial shall be issued by the appellate trial panel.
In such cases, first-instance judgments/decisions shall take legal effect from the day on which the appellate Courts issue the decisions to terminate the appellate trial.
3. If the appellant withdraws a part of the appeal or the procuracy withdraws a part of the appeal, the appellate trial panel shall consider such withdrawal and issue a decision on termination of a part of the appeal in the appellate judgment.
4. A decision to terminate the appellate trial over a case shall be effective immediately and shall be immediately sent to involved parties, agencies/organizations/individuals initiating the lawsuit and the procuracy of the same level.

Section 443. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision to bring a case to appellate trial 1. A decision to bring a case to appellate trial shall consist of the following principal contents:
a) Information specified in points a, b, c, d, g, h and I clause 1

Section 444. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Full name of the Judge, Court clerk; full name of alternate Judge (if any);
c) Full name, procedural capacity of the appellant;
d) Procuracy lodging appeal (if any);
dd) Full name of the procurator participating in the Court session; full name of the alternate procurator (if any).
2. A decision to bring a case to appellate trial must be sent to involved parties and procuracy of the same level within 03 working days from the day on which it is issued.

Section 445. Original section/article: 291. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision to apply, change or cancel provisional emergency measures Within the preparation for appellate trials, appellate Courts shall be entitled to issue decisions to apply, change or cancel provisional emergency measures prescribed in Chapter VIII of this Code.

Section 446. Original section/article: 292. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding the case files to the procuracies for study 1. Appellate Courts must forward the case files and decisions to bring the case to trial to procuracies of the same levels for study.
2. The procuracies shall study the files within 15 days as from the day on which such case files are received; upon the expiry of such time limit, the procuracies must return the case files to the Courts.
Chapter XVII APPELLATE TRIAL PROCEDURES

Section 447. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
PROCEDURES FOR OPENING AN APPELLATE COURT SESSION

Section 448. Original section/article: 293. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Scope of appellate trial 
The appellate Courts shall only review the parts of the first-instance judgments/decisions, which are appealed against or related to the review of the appealed contents.

Section 449. Original section/article: 294. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in appellate Court sessions 1. The appellants, the involved parties, agencies/organizations/individuals that are related to the resolution of the appeals and the defense counsels of the involved parties' legitimate rights and interests must be summoned to the appellate Court sessions. The Courts can summon other procedure participants to Court sessions if they deem it necessary for the resolution of the appeals.
2. Procurators of the procuracy of the same level shall participate in the appellate Court session.

Section 450. Original section/article: 295. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Suspension or termination of appellate trials in Court sessions At appellate Court sessions, the suspension or termination of the appellate trail of cases shall comply with the provisions of Articles 288 and 289 of this Code.

Section 451. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Postponement of appellate Court sessions 1. If the procurators assigned to participate in the appellate Court sessions are absent, the trial panels shall not postpone the Court sessions and shall carry on the trial, unless the procuracy lodge appeals.
2. If people who file appeals, people who do not file appeals but have interests and duties related to the appeals or defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests are absent at the first time they are duly summoned, the Court sessions must be postponed. If they apply for trial in their absence, the Judge shall carry out the appellate Court sessions according to procedures for trial in their absence.
3. If the appellants who have been duly summoned twice but are still absent, they shall be considered having waived their appeals and the Courts shall issue decisions to stop the appellate trial over the appeals of such appellants; if such appellants apply for trials in their absence, the Court shall carry out the appellate Court sessions in their absence.
If the appellants are absent due to force majeure events or objective obstacles, the Court sessions must be postponed.
If there are more than one appellants and any of whom has been duly summoned twice but are still absent without application for trials in their absence, he/she shall be considered having waived their appeals and the Court shall bring the case to trial. In the decision of the judgment, the Court shall terminate the appellate trial for the appeal of such absent appellant.
If people who do not file appeals but have interests and duties related to the appeals and other participants who have been duly summoned twice by the Courts but still absent, the Court shall carry on the trial.
4. The duration for postponement of, and the decisions to postpone, the appellate Court sessions shall comply with the provisions of

Section 452. Original section/article: 297. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for the opening of appellate Court sessions and procedures for starting the appellate Court sessions 
The preparation for the opening of appellate Court sessions and the procedures for starting the appellate Court sessions shall comply with the provisions of Articles 237, 239, 240, 241 and 242 of this Code.

Section 453. Original section/article: 298. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Asking about the appeals and processing of change of appeals in Court sessions 1. After the conclusion of the procedures for opening an appellate Court session, a member of the trial panel shall announce the contents of the case, the decision of the first-instance judgment and the appealed contents.
2. The presiding Judge shall ask the following issues:
a) Whether or not the plaintiff wishes to withdraw his/her/its lawsuit petition or not;
b) Whether or not the appellant or the procurator wishes to change, supplement or withdraw their appeal;
c) Whether or not the involved parties can reach mutual agreements on the resolution of the case.
3. If the appellant withdraws a part of the appeal or the procuracy withdraws a part of the appeal, Court shall accept such withdrawal. If the appellant or the procuracy supplement contents that exceed the original scope of appeal, the Court shall not consider such contents.

Section 454. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Plaintiffs withdraw lawsuit petitions before the opening of, or in, appellate Court sessions 1. If the plaintiffs withdraw their lawsuit petitions before the opening of, or in, appellate Court sessions, the appellate Trial Panels must ask the defendants whether they agree therewith or not and may settle on a case-by-case basis as follows:
a) Disapproving the withdrawal of lawsuit petitions by the plaintiffs if the defendants disagree;
b) Approving the withdrawal of lawsuit petitions by the plaintiffs if the defendants agree. The Appellate Trial Panels shall issue decisions to abrogate first-instance judgments and terminate the resolution of the cases. In this case, the involved parties are still required to pay the first- instance Court fees as decided by the first-instance Courts and half of the appellate Court fees as provided for by law.
2. In cases where the Appellate Trial Panels issue decisions to terminate the resolution of the cases as prescribed in point b clause 1 of this Article, the plaintiffs shall be entitled to re-institute the cases according to the procedures prescribed by this Code.

Section 455. Original section/article: 300. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recognizing the agreement of the involved parties in appellate Court sessions 1. In appellate Court sessions, if the involved parties can reach mutual agreement on the resolution of their cases and their agreements are voluntary and not contrary to law or social ethics, the appellate trial panels shall render appellate judgments to revise the first-instance Court judgments and recognize the agreement of the involved parties.
2. The involved parties may also reach agreement on the payment of the first-instance Court fees. If they fail to reach such agreement, the Courts shall make decision according to law provisions.

Section 456. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
ORAL ARGUMENT IN APPELLATE Court SESSIONS

Section 457. Original section/article: 301. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Contents and forms of oral argument in appellate Court sessions 
Contents and forms of oral argument in appellate Court sessions shall comply with regulations in

Section 458. Original section/article: 302. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presentations of the involved parties and procurators in appellate Court sessions If the involved parties maintain the appeals and the procuracies maintain the appeals, the presentations in appellate Court sessions shall be performed as follows:
1. Presentation of appeals:
a) Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the appellant shall make presentation of the contents of appeals and grounds for the appeals. The appellants may give additional opinions.
In cases where all involved parties appeal, the presentations shall be made in the following order: the defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the appellants being plaintiffs and the plaintiffs; the defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the appellants being defendants and the defendants; the defense counsels of the legitimate rights and interests of the appellants being persons with related interests and duties and the persons with related interests and duties;
b) In case where only the procuracies file appeals, the procuracies shall make presentation of the appealed contents. In cases where there are both appeal, the involved parties shall present the appealed contents and the grounds therefore first, then the procurators shall present the appealed contents and the grounds therefor;
c) In cases where the involved parties have no defense counsels, they shall themselves present their opinions on the appealed contents as well as their proposals.
2. The defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of other parties related to the appeal shall present their opinions on the appealed contents. The involved parties may give additional opinions.
3. In the appellate Court sessions, the involved parties and procurators may product additional evidences.

Section 459. Original section/article: 303. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for inquiries and publication of materials and evidences examination of exhibits in appellate Court sessions 1. Procedures for inquiring participants and publishing materials and evidences, examining exhibits prescribed in

Section 460. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code in appellate Court sessions shall be the same as those applicable in first-instance Court sessions.
2. The inquiry shall be made on matters falling within the scope of appellate trials as stipulated in

Section 461. Original section/article: 304. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Postponement of appellate Court sessions The postponement of appellate Court sessions shall comply with regulations in

Section 462. Original section/article: 305. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Arguments in appellate Court sessions 1. In appellate Court sessions, involved parties and defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of involved parties shall argue only about matters falling within the scope of appellate trials that have been inquired in appellate Court sessions.
2. Appellate arguments shall be conducted according to the following order:
a) Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the appellant shall make presentation. The appellants may give additional opinions;
b) Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties shall present arguments, question and answer. The involved parties may give additional opinions;
c) When it is deemed necessary, the trial panel may request involved parties to present additional arguments about specific matters to form basis for the resolution of the case.
3. Appeal arguments shall be conducted according to the following order:
a) Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties shall present about the lawfulness and the groundedness of the appeal. The involved parties may give additional opinions;
b) Procurators shall present opinions about matters presented by defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of involved parties and/or involved parties.
4. If the involved parties have no defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests, they shall argue themselves.
5. If any of the involved parties or other participants is absent, the presiding Judge of the Court session must publish their testimonies, base on which the involved parties present in the Court session can argue and question and answer.

Section 463. Original section/article: 306. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Presentations of the procurators in appellate Court sessions When the arguments and questioning and answering finish, the procurators shall present opinions of the procuracies on the compliance with law provisions during the resolution of civil lawsuits in appellate trial period.
Immediately when the Court sessions finish, the procurators must send the writing containing the procuracies‟ opinions to the Courts to be kept in the case files.

Section 464. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Deliberation and judgment pronouncement The deliberation, the inquiry resumption and arguments, the time for deliberation, pronouncement, amendment and supplementation of appellate judgments shall comply with the first-instance trial procedures.

Section 465. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of the appellate trial panels The appellate trial panels shall have the power as follows:
1. To uphold the first-instance judgments;
2. To revise the first-instance judgments;
3. To repeal the whole or parts of first-instance judgments and transfer the case files to the first- instance Courts for retrial over the cases according to first-instance procedures;
4. To repeal the first-instance judgments and terminate the resolution of the cases;
5. To terminate the appellate trial;
6. To suspend the case resolution in case the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court recommend competent agencies to consider amending, supplementing or repealing legislative documents denoting contrary to provisions of Constitutions, laws, Resolutions of National Assembly, ordinances, Resolutions of the Standing committee of the National Assembly, legislative documents of superior regulatory agencies until the competent agencies respond in writing.

Section 466. Original section/article: 309. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Amendment to first-instance judgments The appellate trial panels can revise part or whole of a first-instance judgment if the first- instance Court made a decision in contravention of law in the following cases:
1. The collection of evidences and proof has been carried out sufficiently and in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VII of this Code;
2. The collection of evidences and proof that have not been carried out sufficiently in first- instance Courts are completely supplemented in appellate Court sessions.

Section 467. Original section/article: 310. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Repeal of the whole or parts of first-instance judgments and transfer of the case files to the first-instance Courts for retrial over the cases according to first-instance procedures The appellate trial panels shall repeal the whole or parts of first-instance judgments and transfer the case files to the first-instance Courts for retrial over the cases according to first-instance procedures in any of the following cases:
1. The collection of evidences and proof have failed to comply with the provisions of Chapter VII of this Code or have not yet been fully carried out while the supplementation thereof cannot be made in the appellate Court sessions;
2. The composition of the first-instance Trial Panels has fail to comply with the provisions of this Code or other serious procedural violations have been committed and affect lawful rights and interests of the involved parties.

Section 468. Original section/article: 311. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Annulment of first-instance judgments and termination of case resolution The appellate trial panels shall annul first-instance judgments and terminate the case adjudication if during the resolution of the cases in the first-instance Court sessions, the cases fell under one of the circumstances stipulated in

Section 469. Original section/article: 312. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of the appellate trial The appellate trial panels shall terminate the appellate trial and uphold the first-instance judgment in any of the following cases:
1. Cases specified in clause 2

Section 470. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. The appellant is absent though has been duly summoned twice as prescribed in clause 3

Section 471. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, unless the case is appealed against by another appellant by the procuracy.

Section 472. Original section/article: 313. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appellate Court judgments 1. The appellate trial panels shall, in the name of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, render appellate Court judgments.
2. An appellate Court judgment shall be composed of:
a) The introduction;
b) The case contents, appeal, assessment;
c) The Court decision.
3. The introduction section must clearly state the name of the appellate court; the code number and date of the case acceptance; the serial number of the judgment and the date of judgment pronouncement; full names of the members of the trial panel, Court reporter, procurator, expert- witness and interpreter; full names and addresses of the plaintiffs, defendants, persons with related rights and obligations; agencies or organizations initiating the lawsuit or their lawful representatives, the defense counsels of their legitimate rights and interests; appellants or appealing procuracy; public or closed trial, time and place of trial.
4. The section on the case contents, the appeal and assessment must summarize the contents of the case and decision of the first-instance court; content of the appeal.
The Court must base themselves on materials and evidences examined at the Court session and result of argument at the Court session to analyze and assess comprehensively and objectively the appeal, details of the case, the adjudication and resolution of the first-instance court, legal grounds applied by the Court, if the case is of the cases specified in clause 2

Section 473. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court shall also base themselves on customs, legal similarity, basic principles of civil law, precedent or the justice to decide to accept or not to accept the appeal and to resolve relevant matters.
The decision must state legal grounds, decisions of the trial panel on each matters to be resolved in the case, on the application of provisional emergency measures, first-instance court‟s fees, appellate court‟s fees and procedural charges (if any).
5. When retrying cases whose judgments or decisions have been partial or wholly repealed according to cassation/reopening decisions, the Court shall resolve all issues pertaining to properties and/or duties that have been executed (if any) according to legally effective judgments and decisions that are repealed; such shall be recorded in the judgment.
6. The appellate judgments shall take effect as from the date they are pronounced.

Section 474. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for appellate revision of decisions of the first-instance Courts which are appealed against 1. When conducting appellate trial over first-instance courts' decisions, which are appealed against, the appellate trial panels shall not be required to open Court sessions nor summon the involved parties, except where it is necessary to hear their opinions before making decisions.
2. Within 01 month form the day on which the appeal against a decision of a first-instance Court is accepted, the Court shall open an appellate meeting to review such decision; if there is good and sufficient reason, such period shall be 02 months. Procurators of the procuracy of the same level shall participate in the appellate meeting. If the procurators are absent, the meetings shall be still carried on by the Court, unless the procuracy lodges an appeal.
3. One member of the appellate panel shall present the summarized contents of the first-instance judgments which are appealed against, the contents of the appeals and accompanying materials as well as evidences (if any).
4. The procurators shall state the procuracies' opinions on the resolution of the appeals before the appellate trial panels make decisions.
5. When reviewing the first-instance courts' decisions, which are appealed against, the appellate trial panels shall have the power to:
a) Uphold the first-instance courts' decisions;
b) Amend the first-instance courts' decisions;
c) Repeal the first-instance courts' decisions and transfer the case files to the first-instance Courts to continue the resolution of the cases.
6. The appellate decisions shall take effect as from the day on which they are issued.

Section 475. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding appellate judgments/decisions 1. Within 15 days as from the day on which the appellate judgments or decisions are issued, the appellate Courts must forward the judgments and/or decisions to the Courts which conducted the first-instance trials, the procuracies of the same levels, the competent civil judgment-executing bodies, the appellants, persons whose rights and obligations are related to the appeals or their lawful representatives.
If the appellate trial is conducted by a Collegial People‟s Court, such time limit may be extended for not exceeding 25 days.
2. An appellate judgment/decision pertaining to interests of consumers initiated by a social organization protecting interests of consumers must be publicly posted at the office of the Court and must be publicly posted on one of central or local dailies for three consecutive issues.
An appellate judgment/decision relevant to the compensation responsibility of the State must be sent to State management agencies competent in state compensation by the appellate Court.
Regarding appellate judgments/decisions related to the change of civil statuses of individuals, within 05 working days from the day on which such judgments/decisions take legal effect, the appellate Courts shall send written notifications enclosed with copies of the judgments/decisions to People‟s Committees where such individuals registered civil statuses as prescribed in the Law on civil status.
3. The appellate judgments shall be posted on e-portal of the Court (if any), except for court‟s judgments containing information specified in clause 2

Section 476. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
PART FOUR RESOLUTION OF CIVIL LAWSUITS ACCORDING TO SIMPLIFIED PROCEDURES Chapter XVIII RESOLUTION OF CIVIL LAWSUITS ACCORDING TO SIMPLIFIED PROCEDURES 
AT FIRST-INSTANCE TRIALS

Section 477. Original section/article: 316. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Scope of application of simplified procedures 1. Simplified procedures are procedures that are applied to resolve civil lawsuits which fully satisfy conditions specified in this Code in simpler procedures than common civil lawsuit resolution procedures to resolve the cases quickly but still ensure the compliance with law.
2. Provisions of the Part shall be applied to resolve cases according to simplified procedures; cases other than those specified in this Part shall be resolved according to other provisions of this Code.
3. If there are other law provisions stating that a civil dispute shall be resolved according to simplified procedure, the resolution of such dispute shall be conducted according to procedures specified in this Part.

Section 478. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Conditions for application of simplified procedures 1. The Court shall resolve a case according to simplified procedure when all of the following conditions are satisfied:
a) The case has simple details, clear legal relationship and the involved parties have admitted their obligations; materials and evidences are sufficient, ensuring the sufficiency of grounds for the resolution of the case and the Court does not have to collect materials/evidences;
b) Addresses of residence and headquarters of all of involved parties are determined;
c) None of involved parties reside overseas and there are no properties being in dispute are in foreign countries, unless the involved parties residing overseas and the ones residing in Vietnam have reached agreements to request the Courts to resolve the cases according to simplified procedures or the involved parties have presented evidences about the legitimate right to ownership towards the properties and have reached agreements about the handling of the properties.
2. Regarding labor cases that have been accepted and settled according to simplified procedures, if the employers having foreign nationalities or their lawful representatives have left their residence/headquarter addresses that have been priorly declared without notification to other involved parties and the Courts, such entities shall be considered to conceal their addressees on purpose. The Courts shall continue resolving the cases according to simplified procedure specified in this Part.
3. During the preparation for the resolution of the cases according to simplified procedures, if any of the following details is detected and, as the result, the cases no longer eligible for resolution according to simplified procedures, the Courts shall make decisions to resolve the cases according to common procedures:
a) New details are found out but the involved parties cannot reach agreements and therefore such details need verification, more materials and evidences need to be collected and expertises need to be conducted;
b) Involved parties cannot reach agreements about the prices of the properties being in dispute and such properties shall be subject to price assessment/appraisal;
c) Cases where provisional emergency measures must be applied;
d) New persons with relevant interests and duties are found out;
dd) New counter-claims or independent claims are found out;
e) New involved parties who reside overseas, properties in dispute that are in foreign countries, requirements for verification or collection of evidences from foreign countries subject to request for judicial assistance, except for cases specified in point c clause 1 of this Article.
4. If the cases are transferred for resolution according to common procedures, the duration for preparation for the resolution of the cases shall be re-counted from the day on which the decisions to transfer the cases for resolution according to common procedures are issued.

Section 479. Original section/article: 318. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to bring cases to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures 1. Within 01 month from the day on which the cases are accepted according to regulations in clauses 3 and 4

Section 480. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Judge who are assigned to resolve the case must make decisions to bring the cases to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures and shall hold the trials within 10 days from the day on which the decisions are issued.
2. A decision to bring a case to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures shall include the following main contents:
a) Date of issuing the decision;
b) Name of the Courts making the decision;
c) The case that is brought to trial for resolution according to simplified procedure;
d) Names, addresses; phone numbers, fax numbers, e-mail addresses (if any) of the plaintiffs, the defendants or agencies, organizations or individuals initiating lawsuits specified in

Section 481. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and persons with relevant interests and duties;
dd) Full names of the Judge, the Court clerk; full name of the alternate Judge (if any);
e) Full name of the procurator; full name of the alternate procurator (if any);
g) Date, time and place of holding the Court session;
h) Whether the session is open trial or closed trial;
i) Full names of persons summoned to the Court session.
3. The decisions to bring the case to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures shall be immediately sent to involved parties and procuracies of the same levels.
If the procuracies participate in the Court sessions according to regulations in clause 2

Section 482. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts shall send the case files and the decisions to bring the cases to trial to procuracies of the same levels. Within 03 working days from the day on which the case files are received, the procuracies shall study the files and return them to the Courts.

Section 483. Original section/article: 319. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Complaints, recommendations about decisions to bring cases to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures and resolution thereof 1. Within 03 working days from the day on which the decisions to bring the cases to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures are received, involved parties may file complaints and the procuracies of the same levels may file recommendations to the Chief Justices of the Courts issuing such decisions.
2. Within 03 working days from the day on which the complaints/recommendations about the decisions to bring the cases to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures are received, the Courts shall issue one of the following decisions:
a) To uphold the decision to bring the case to trial for resolution according to simplified procedures;
b) To repeal the decision to bring the case to trial for resolution according to simplified procedure and transfer the case for resolution according to common procedures.
3. The decisions on resolution of complaints/recommendations issued by the Courts shall be the final ones and must be immediately sent to the involved parties and the procuracies of the same levels.

Section 484. Original section/article: 320. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Court sessions conducting simplified procedures 1. Involved parties, procurators of procuracies of the same levels must attend the Court sessions conducting simplified procedures. If the procurators are absent, the trial panels shall still hold the session. Involved parties may apply for trial in their absence.
If the defendants or the persons with relevant interests and duties are absent without good and sufficient reasons though have been duly summoned, the Court sessions shall be still carried out by the Judge.
2. The Judge shall carry out the opening of the Court sessions according to regulations in

Section 485. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. When the Court sessions have been opened, the Judge shall conduct mediation process, except for cases must not be mediated specified in

Section 486. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
and cases cannot be mediated specified in

Section 487. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the involved parties can reach agreements about matters to be resolved in the cases, the Judge shall issue decisions to recognize such agreements as provided for in

Section 488. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the involved parties fail to reach agreements about such matters, the Judge shall conduct the resolution process.
The presentation, argument, question and answer and suggestion about the resolution of the cases shall comply with regulations in

Section 489. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chapter XIV of this Code.
4. If at the Court sessions, new details detected as prescribed in clause 3

Section 490. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code make the cases no longer eligible for resolution according to simplified procedures, then the Judge shall consider issuing decisions to transfer the cases for resolution according to common procedures. In these cases, time limit for preparation for the resolution of the cases shall be counted according to regulations in clause 4

Section 491. Original section/article: 321. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect of judgments/decisions made according to simplified procedures 1. First-instance judgments/decisions of the Courts made according to simplified procedures can be appealed against according to appellate procedures to request the first-instance Courts to re- settle the cases according to appellate simplified procedures.
2. Judgments/decisions made according to simplified procedures can be appealed against according to cassation/reopening procedures as provided for in this Code.
Chapter XIX RESOLUTION OF CIVIL LAWSUITS ACCORDING TO SIMPLIFIED PROCEDURE 
AT APPELLATE TRIALS

Section 492. Original section/article: 322. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for appeal against judgments/decisions made according to simplified procedures 1. Time limit for filing appeal against a judgment/decision of first-instance Court issued according to simplified procedures shall be 07 days from the day on which the judgment is
pronounced. Regarding involved parties who were absent from the Court sessions, time limit for them to appeal against judgments/decisions shall be counted from the day on which such judgments/decisions are received or the day on which such judgments/decisions are posted.
2. Time limit for filing appeal against a judgment/decision of the first-instance Court issued according to simplified procedure shall be 07 days (applicable to appeals made by procuracies of the same levels) or 10 days (applicable to appeals made by the immediately superior procuracies) from the day on which such judgment/decision is received.

Section 493. Original section/article: 323. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for preparation for appellate trials conducted according to simplified procedures 1. Within 01 month from the day on which the cases are accepted, for specific cases, the Judge assigned to resolve the cases according to appellate procedures shall issue one of the following decisions:
a) To suspend the appellate process of the case;
b) To terminate the appellate process of the case;
c) To bring the case to appellate trial.
2. The decisions to bring cases to trial shall contain the information specified in clause 1

Section 494. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. The decisions to bring cases to trial must be immediately sent to persons related to the appeal process and the procuracies of the same level, enclosed with the file cases for study.
Time limit for the procuracies to study the case files shall be 05 working days counting from the day on which the case files are received; when such time limit expires, the procuracies must return them to the Courts.
3. If a decision to terminate the appellate process for the case is issued, time limit for preparation for the appellate trial shall be re-counted from the day on which the Court resume the appellate trial process when the reasons for suspension are resolved.
4. If new details are found out as prescribed in clause 3

Section 495. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts shall issue decisions to transfer the cases for resolution according to common procedures. In these cases, time limit for preparation for the resolution of the cases shall be counted according to regulations in clause 4

Section 496. Original section/article: 324. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appellate simplified procedures for judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts that are appealed against 1. Within 15 days from the day on which decisions to bring cases to appellate trial are issued, the Judges shall hold the appellate Court sessions.
2. Involved parties, procurators of procuracies of the same levels must attend the appellate Court sessions. If the procurators are absent, the trial panels shall still carry out the trials, unless the procuracies file appeals. Involved parties may apply for trial in their absence.
If the involved parties who do not file appeals are absent without good and sufficient reasons though have been duly summoned, the Judges shall still carry out the trials.
3. The Judge shall present briefly the contents of the first-instance judgments/decisions that are appealed against, contents of the appeals and the enclosed materials/evidences (if any).
4. Defense counsels of legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties shall make presentation and the involved parties shall supplement opinions about the contents of the appeals, present arguments, questions, answers and opinions about the resolution of the cases.
5. When the argument, questioning and answering finish, the procurators shall express the procuracies‟ opinions about the compliance with law during the resolution of the civil lawsuits in the appellate stage.
Immediately when the Court sessions finish, procurators must send the writings containing procuracies‟ opinions to the Courts to be kept in the case files.
6. When reviewing judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts that are appealed against, the Judges shall be entitled to:
a) Uphold the judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts;
b) Modify judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts;
c) Repeal the judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts and transfer the case files to first- instance Courts so that the cases could be resolve again according to simplified procedure, or according to common procedures in cases conditions for resolution according to simplified procedures are not fully satisfied;
d) Repeal the first-instance judgments and terminate the resolution of the cases;
dd) Terminate the appellate trials and uphold the first-instance judgments.
7. Appellate judgments/decisions shall be legally effective from the day on which the judgments/decisions are issued.
PART FIVE PROCEDURES FOR REVIEWING LEGALLY EFFECTIVE JUDGMENTS/DECISIONS Chapter XX 
CASSATION PROCEDURES

Section 497. Original section/article: 325. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nature of cassation Cassation means the review of courts' legally effective judgments or decisions, which are appealed against when there are grounds specified in

Section 498. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are satisfied.

Section 499. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Grounds and conditions for appeal according to cassation procedures 1. A legally effective judgment/decision of the Court shall be appealed against according to cassation procedures when there is one of the following grounds:
a) Conclusion in the judgment/decision is incompatible with the objective details of the cases, causing damage to legitimate rights and interests of the involved parties;
b) There are serious violations against procedures that prevent involved parties from executing their procedural rights and obligations, as the result, their legitimate rights and interests are not protected as prescribed in law;
c) There are mistakes in the application of law leading to the issuance of wrong judgments/decisions, causing bad effect to legitimate rights and interests of involved parties, infringing upon public benefits, State benefits, legitimate rights and interests of the third parties.
2. Persons competent to lodge appeals specified in

Section 500. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall lodge appeals against Courts‟ judgments/decisions that are legally effective when there is one of the grounds specified in clause 1 of this Article and shall file applications as provided for in

Section 501. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code or make notifications/recommendations as prescribed in clauses 2 and 3

Section 502. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the judgments/decisions infringe upon public benefits, State benefits, legitimate rights and interests of the third parties, the applications are not required.

Section 503. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Discovering legally effective judgments or decisions of Courts which need to be reviewed according to cassation procedures 1. Within 01 year from the day on which the Court‟s judgments/decisions takes legally effect, if any legal violations in the judgments/decisions is discovered, involved parties are entitled to submit written applications to persons competent to lodge appeal specified in

Section 504. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code for consideration according to cassation procedures.
2. If the Courts, the procuracies or other agencies/organizations/individuals discover legal violations in the Courts‟ judgments/decisions that are legally effective, written notifications must be sent to persons competent to lodge appeals provided for in

Section 505. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Chief Justices of People‟s Courts of provinces shall file recommendations to Chief Justices of Collegial People‟s Courts/Supreme People‟s Courts, the Chief Justices of Collegial People‟s Courts shall file recommendations to Chief Justices of Supreme People‟s Courts, to review the appeals against Courts‟ judgments/decisions that are legally effective according to cassation procedures if any ground specified in clause 1

Section 506. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is discovered.

Section 507. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for reviewing legally effective judgments or decisions according to cassation procedures 1. An application for reviewing Courts‟ judgments/decisions which are legally effective according to cassation procedures must have the following principal details:
a) Date of making the application;
b) Name and address of the applicant;
c) Name of the Court‟s legally effective judgment/decision subject to reviewing according to cassation procedures;
d) Reasons for the application, requests of the applicant;
dd) Signature or fingerprints, applicable to applicants being individuals, or signature and seal of lawful representatives, applicable to applicants being agencies or organizations, in the end of the application. If the applicant is an enterprise, the use of the seal shall comply with provisions of the Law on Enterprise.
2. Enclosed with the application shall be Courts' legally effective judgments/decisions and materials and evidences (if any) to prove that the applicants‟ requests are well-grounded and lawful.
3. The application and materials and/or evidences shall be sent to persons competent to lodge appeals provided for in

Section 508. Original section/article: 329. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for receiving applications for reviewing courts’ legally effective judgments or decisions according to cassation procedures 
1. Courts/procuracies shall receive applications that are submitted by the involved parties directly at the Courts/procuracies or by post and shall record to the application registers and issue receiving slips for involved parties. Date of sending of application shall be calculated from the day on which the involved parties submit the application at the Courts/procuracies or the sending date written on the post seal.
2. Courts/procuracies shall accept the applications only when all provisions specified in

Section 509. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are satisfied. If the applications do not satisfy conditions specified in

Section 510. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Courts/Procuracies shall request the applicants to submit application for amendment/supplement within 01 month from the day on which the requests from the Courts/Procuracies are received. Upon the expiry of such period, if the applicants fail to conduct amendment/supplement, the Courts/Procuracies shall return the applications enclosed with explanation and note such cases in the application registers.
3. Persons competent to file appeals according to cassation procedures shall assign persons to study the petitions, notifications, recommendations and case files then request the persons competent to file appeals to consider and make decisions. If the petitions are rejected, written notifications containing explanation shall be sent to involved parties, agencies, organizations and individuals that have sent the notifications/recommendations.
The Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court shall assign Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall assign procurators of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy to study the petitions, notifications, recommendations, case files and report them to the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court and the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy for considering and making decisions on appeal. If the petitions are rejected, the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court, the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall, by themselves or authorize the Judge of the Supreme People‟s Court and procurators of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy to send written notifications containing explanation to the involved parties and individuals that have sent the notifications/recommendations.

Section 511. Original section/article: 330. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Supplement, verification of materials and evidences in cassation procedures 1. Involved parties shall be entitled to provide materials and evidences for persons competent to file appeals according to cassation procedures if such materials and evidences have not been supplied to the first-instance Courts or the appellate Courts because such Courts had not required or because the involved parties failed to supplied due to good and sufficient reasons or because the involved parties did not know about such materials and evidences during the resolution of the cases.
2. During the resolution of petitions for consideration of the legally effective judgments/decisions of Courts according to cassation procedures, persons competent to file appeals according to cassation procedures shall be entitled to request the petitioners to supplement materials and evidences or inspect and verify the materials and evidences by themselves if necessary.

Section 512. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Persons competent to appeal according to cassation procedures 1. The Chief Justice of the Supreme People's Court and the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall be competent to appeal according to cassation procedures against the legally effective judgments or decisions of the Collegial People‟s Court; legally effective judgments or
decisions of other Courts when it is deemed necessary, except for cassation decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People's Court.
2. The Chief Justices of the Collegial People‟s Courts and the chairpersons of the shall be entitled to appeal according to the cassation procedures against legally effective judgments or decisions of People‟s Courts of provinces or People‟s Courts of districts within territorial competence.

Section 513. Original section/article: 332. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Postponement and suspension of enforcement of legally effective judgments or decisions 1. Persons who are competent to appeal against legally effective judgments or decisions of Courts may request the postponement of enforcement of judgments or decisions in order to consider the appeals according to cassation procedures. The postponement of enforcement of judgments shall comply with law regulations on civil judgment execution.
2. Persons who have appealed according to cassation procedures legally effective judgments or decisions shall have the right to decide on the suspension of enforcement of such judgments or decisions until the cassation decisions are made.

Section 514. Original section/article: 333. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to appeal according to cassation procedures A decision to appeal according to cassation procedures shall consist of the following principal contents:
1. Date and number of the appeal decision;
2. Position of the person who makes the appeal decision;
3. Number and date of the legally effective judgment or decision being appealed against;
4. Decisions of the legally effective judgment or decision being appealed against;
5. Comments, analysis of the violations or errors of the legally effective judgment or decision being appealed against;
6. Legal grounds for making the appeal decision;
7. Whether the appeal is against parts or whole of the legally effective judgment or decision;
8. Name of the Court that is competent to conduct cassation of such case;
9. Proposals of the appellant.

Section 515. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for appeal according to cassation procedures 1. Persons competent to appeal according to cassation procedures are entitled to lodge the appeal within 03 year from the day on which the Court‟s judgments/decisions takes legally effect, except for cases specified in clause 2 of this Article.
2. If the time limit for appeal prescribed in clause 1 of this Article expires such time limit shall be extended by 02 years from the day on which such time limit expires if the following conditions are satisfied:
a) The involved parties have submitted applications provided for in clause 1

Section 516. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and maintain the application when the time limit for appeal provided for in clause 1 of this Article has expired;
b) Courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions are contrary to law as prescribed in clause 1

Section 517. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, seriously affecting legitimate rights and interests of involved parties and/or third parties, public benefits, State benefits and are subject to appeal to eliminate faults in such legally effective judgments/decisions.

Section 518. Original section/article: 335. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Modification, supplementation, withdrawal of appeals according to cassation procedures 1. Persons who have appealed according to cassation procedures shall be entitled to modify or supplement the appeals if the appeal time limit prescribed in

Section 519. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code has not yet expired. Such modification/supplement must be made under decisions. Decisions to modify/supplement appeals must be sent according to provisions of

Section 520. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Persons who have appealed shall be entitled to withdraw parts or whole of the appeal decisions before the opening of Court sessions or in cassation Court sessions. Such withdrawal must be made under decisions.
3. After receiving decisions to withdraw whole of the appeal, the cassation Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the cassation trial.

Section 521. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding decisions to appeal according to cassation procedures 1. Decisions to appeal according to cassation procedures must be immediately sent to the Courts that have issued the legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed against, the involved parties, the competent civil judgment-executing agencies and persons whose interests and duties are related to the appealed contents.
2. In cases where the Chief Justices of the Supreme People's Court or the Chief Justices of the Collegial People‟s Courts appeal, the appeal decisions and the case files must be immediately sent to the Procuracies of the same level. The procuracies shall study the files within 15 days as from the day on which the case files are received; upon the expiry of such time limit, the procuracies must transfer the case files to the Courts competent to hear the cases according to cassation procedures.
3. In cases where the Chairperson of the Supreme People's Procuracy or the heads of the Collegial People‟s procuracies appeal, the appeal decisions must be immediately sent to the Courts competent to hear the cases according to cassation procedures.

Section 522. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction to review cases according to cassation procedures 1. The Committee of Judges of the Collegial People‟s Courts shall review according to cassation procedures legally effective judgments/decisions of the provincial-level people‟s Courts or district-level people's courts, which are appealed against, within competence as follows:
a) The Committee of Judges of the Collegial People‟s Courts shall review according to cassation procedures, through trial panels composed of 3 Judges, legally effective judgments/decisions of the provincial-level people‟s Courts or district-level people's Courts which are appealed against:
b) If courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions prescribed in point a of this clause are complicated, or judgments/decisions have been reviewed according to cassation procedures by Committee of Judges of Collegial People‟s Courts, through trial panels composed of 3 Judges, but no agreement is reached upon the vote on the decisions on case resolution, then the whole of
Committee of Judges of Collegial People‟s Courts shall review such judgments/decisions according to cassation procedures.
2. The Council of Judges of the Supreme People's Court shall review according to cassation procedures legally effective judgments/decisions of Collegial People‟s Courts which are appealed against as follows:
a) The Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall review according to cassation procedures, through trial panels composed of 5 Judges, legally effective judgments/decisions of Collegial People‟s Courts that are appealed against according to cassation procedures;
b) If courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions prescribed in point a of this clause are complicated, or judgments/decisions have been reviewed according to cassation procedures by the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, through trial panels composed of 5 Judges, but no agreement is reached upon the vote on the decisions on case resolution, then the whole of Council of Judges of Supreme People‟s Courts shall review such judgments/decisions according to cassation procedures.
3. Complicated cases mentioned in point b clause 1 and point b clause 2 of this Article are the following cases:
a) Law provisions applicable to matters to be resolved in the case are unclear or are not applied consistently;
b) There is argument over the assessment of evidences and application of law provisions;
c) The case resolution is related to public benefits, State benefits, human‟s right protection, civil right protection that are specially concerned.
4. Chief Justices of Collegial People‟s Courts shall consider deciding to conduct cassation trials for cases specified in clause 1 of this Article. Chief Justices of Supreme People‟s Courts shall consider deciding to conduct cassation trials for cases specified in clause 2 of this Article.
5. If legally effective judgments/decisions are on the same civil lawsuits and within the competence to review according to cassation procedures of both Collegial People‟s Courts and the Supreme People‟s Court, then the Supreme People‟s Court shall have the competence to review according to cassation procedures for the whole of the case.

Section 523. Original section/article: 338. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in cassation review Court sessions 1. The cassation review Court sessions must be with the participation of the Procuracies of the same level.
2. If it is deemed necessary, the Court shall summon involved parties or their representatives and defense counsels of their rights and interests or other participants related to the appeal to the cassation review Court session; if any of them is absent from the Court session, the cassation review trial panel shall still carry on the session.

Section 524. Original section/article: 339. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for opening of cassation review Court sessions Within 04 months as from the day on which the appeals and the enclosed case files are received, the Courts competent to cassation review must open Court sessions to review cases according to cassation procedures.

Section 525. Original section/article: 340. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparations for cassation review Court session 
The Chief Justice of the Court shall assign a Judge to prepare written explanation of the case at the Court session. The written explanation shall summarize the case contents and the judgments/decisions of the Courts of different levels as well as the appealed contents. The explanation must be forwarded to members of the Cassation Review panel not later than 07 days before the opening of the cassation review Court sessions.

Section 526. Original section/article: 341. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trial procedures at cassation review Court sessions 1. After the presiding Judge opens the Court session, a member of the Cassation Review Panel shall present the brief contents of the case, the case handling process, decisions of the legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed against, grounds for the appeal, viewpoint of the appeal and proposals of the appellant. If the appeal is lodge by a procuracy, the procuracy must present the appealed contents.
2. Involved parties, their representatives and defense counsels of their rights and interests or other participants shall be summoned to the cassation review Court by the Court to present opinions about matters requested by the cassation review panel. If any of such persons is absent but has sent his/her written opinions before, the cassation review panel shall pronounce his/her opinions.
3. The representative of the procuracy shall present the opinions of the procuracy on the resolution of the case.
Immediately after the Court session, the representative of the procuracy shall send the writing containing opinions to the Court to be save in the case files.
4. Members of the Cassation Review Panel shall express their opinions and discuss. The Cassation review panel shall conduct deliberation and vote on the resolution of the case and pronounce the decision on the resolution of the case at the court. The deliberation must be conducted according to rules specified in

Section 527. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. If the cassation review Court is conducted by the Committee of Judges of Collegial People‟s Court as prescribed in point a clause 1

Section 528. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, decisions of the trial panel must be approved by all members of the panel.
For cassation review trial conducted as prescribed in point b clause 1

Section 529. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court session of the whole of the Committee of Judges of the Collegial People‟s Court must be under the presence of at least two-thirds of present members of the committee; decisions of the Judge committee must be approved by more than a haft of members of the committee.
6. If the cassation review Court is conducted by the Committee of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court as prescribed in point a clause 2

Section 530. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, decisions of the trial panel must be approved by all members of the panel.
For cassation review trial conducted as prescribed in point b clause 2

Section 531. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court session of the whole of the Committee of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must be under the presence of at least two-thirds of present members of the committee; decisions of the Judge committee must be approved by more than a haft of members of the committee.

Section 532. Original section/article: 342. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Scope of the cassation review 1. The Cassation Review Panels shall only review parts of legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed against or related to the review of the appealed contents.
2. The Cassation Review Panels shall be entitled to review the decisions of the legally effective judgments/decisions which are neither appealed against nor related to the review of the appealed contents, if these parts infringe upon the public interests, interests of the State, or the interests of the third parties other than the involved parties in the cases.

Section 533. Original section/article: 343. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of the Cassation Review Panels The Cassation Review Panels shall have the following powers:
1. To reject the appeals and uphold the court‟s legally effective judgments/decisions;
2. To repeal the legally effective judgments/decisions of Courts and uphold the lawful judgments/decisions of the subordinate courts, which have been annulled or amended;
3. To repeal parts or the whole of courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions to retry according to first-instance procedures or appellate procedures;
4. To repeal legally effective judgments/decisions and terminate the resolution of the cases;
5. To modify parts or the whole of the legally effective judgments/decisions.

Section 534. Original section/article: 344. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Upholding the subordinate courts' lawful judgments or decisions which have been annulled or amended The Cassation Review Panels shall issue decisions to repeal legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed and uphold the judgments/decisions rendered legally by subordinate Courts but partially or entirely annulled or amended by legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed.
If the judgments/decisions are partially or entirely enforced, the cassation review panel shall resolve the consequences of such enforcement.

Section 535. Original section/article: 345. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Repealing parts or the whole of courts’ legally effective judgments/decisions to retry according to first-instance procedures or appellate procedures The Cassation Review Panels shall issue decisions to repeal partially or entirely courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed against for re-trials according to the first-instance or appellate procedures in the following cases:
1. The collection of evidences and proof have been carried out insufficiently or unconformably with the provisions of Chapter VII of this Code;
2. The decisions in the judgments or decisions do not conform to the objective details of cases or serious errors are committed in the application of law;
3. The composition of the first-instance or appellate trial panel is not conformable with the provisions of this Code or other serious procedural violations have been committed affecting lawful rights and interests of involved parties.

Section 536. Original section/article: 346. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Repealing legally effective judgments and/or decisions and termination of case resolution The Cassation Review Panels shall issue decisions to annul legally effective judgments/decisions and terminate the case resolution if the cases fall under one of the circumstances stipulated in

Section 537. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
If the judgments/decisions are partially or entirely enforced, the cassation review panel shall resolve the consequences of such enforcement.

Section 538. Original section/article: 347. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Modification of parts or the whole of the legally effective judgments/decisions 1. The Cassation Review Panels shall issue decisions to repeal parts or the whole of courts‟ legally effective judgments/decisions if all the following conditions are met:
a) Materials and/or evidences in the case files are sufficient, clear and well-grounded to clarify details in the cases;
b) The modification of judgments/decisions which are appealed against does not affect rights and obligations of other agencies, organizations and individuals.
2. If the judgments/decisions are partially or entirely enforced, the cassation review panel shall resolve the consequences of such enforcement.

Section 539. Original section/article: 348. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cassation review decisions 1. The Cassation Review Panels shall issue decisions in the name of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
2. A cassation review decision must contain the following principal contents:
a) Date and place of opening the Court session;
b) Full names of members of the Cassation Review Panel. In cases where the Cassation Review Panel is the Committee of Judges of a Collegial People‟s Court or the Council of Judges of the Supreme People's Court, the full name and title of the presiding Judge and the number of members participating in the trial shall be specified;
c) Full names of the Court clerk and the procurator participating in the Court session;
d) Name of the case that has been brought to cassation review trial by the Panel;
dd) Full names and addresses of the involved parties in the case;
e) Summary of the contents of the case, decisions of the legally effective judgment or decision being appealed against;
g) Decision to appeal; grounds for making the appeal;
h) Assessment of the Cassation Review Panel where opinion about the resolution of the case must be analyzed and grounds for acceptance or non-acceptance of the appeal must be specified;
i) Points, clauses or articles of the Civil Procedure Code and/or other legislative documents on which the Cassation Review Panel bases to make decision;
k) Decision of the Cassation Review Panel.
3. Decisions of the Cassation review panels of Councils of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must contain argument to prove that provisions of law can be also understood in different ways; legal matters and facts must be explained and reasons and resolution for such matters and legal provisions to be applied (if any) must be specified.

Section 540. Original section/article: 349. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect of the cassation review decisions 
The cassation review decisions shall take legal effect as from the date the Cassation Review Panels issue them.

Section 541. Original section/article: 350. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding the cassation review decisions 1. Within 05 working days from the day on which a cassation review decision is issued, the cassation review trial panel shall send it to the following agencies, organizations and individuals:
a) The involved parties and other persons with related interests and obligations under the cassation review decisions;
b) The Courts which have rendered legally effective judgments/decisions being appealed against;
c) The procuracy of the same level, the competent civil judgment-executing agencies.
2. Cassation review decisions shall be posted by Courts competent to review on their e-portals (if any), except for decisions containing information specified in clause 2

Section 542. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Chapter XXI REOPENING PROCEDURES

Section 543. Original section/article: 351. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nature of reopening procedures Reopening means the review of legally effective judgments/decisions which are appealed against due to the appearance of newly detected details which may substantially change the contents of the judgments/decisions and about which the Courts and involved parties did not know when the Courts rendered such judgments or decisions.

Section 544. Original section/article: 352. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Grounds for appeal according to reopening procedures Legally effective judgments/decisions shall be appealed against according to reopening procedures when there is one of the following grounds:
1. Important details of the case were newly discovered which the involved parties could not have known in the course of resolving the case;
2. There are grounds to prove that the conclusions of the expert witnesses and translations of interpreters were untruthful or evidences were falsified;
3. Judges, People‟s Jurors or procurators intentionally diverted the case files or deliberately made unlawful conclusions;
4. The criminal, administrative, civil, marriage and family, business, commercial or labor judgments/decisions of Courts or decisions of State agencies on which the Courts based themselves to resolve the cases had already been annulled.

Section 545. Original section/article: 353. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notice and verification of newly discovered details 1. The involved parties, agencies, organizations or individuals shall be entitled to discover new details of cases and notify them in writing to the persons competent to appeal defined in

Section 546. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. In cases where new details of cases are discovered, the procuracies and the Courts must notify them in writing to the persons entitled to appeal defined in

Section 547. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Persons competent to appeal according to reopening procedures 
1. The Chief Justice of the Supreme People's Court and the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall be competent to appeal according to reopening procedures against the legally effective judgments/decisions of the Collegial People‟s Court; legally effective judgments/decisions of other Courts when it is deemed necessary, except for cassation decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People's Court.
2. The Chief Justices of the Collegial People‟s Courts and the chairpersons of the shall be competent to appeal according to the reopening procedures against legally effective judgments/decisions issued by People‟s Courts of provinces or People‟s Courts of districts within competence.
3. Persons who have appealed against legally effective judgments/decisions shall have the power to suspend the enforcement of such judgments/decisions until the reopening decisions are made.

Section 548. Original section/article: 355. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for appeal according to reopening procedures The time limit for appeal according to reopening procedures shall be 01 year counting from the day on which the persons competent to appeal acquire grounds for appeal according to reopening procedures prescribed in

Section 549. Original section/article: 356. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of the Reopening trial Panels The reopening trial Panels shall have the following powers:
1. To reject the appeals and uphold the legally effective judgments or decisions;
2. To repeal legally effective judgments/decisions for first-instance retrial according to the procedures prescribed by this Code;
3. To repeal legally effective judgments/decisions and terminate the resolution of the cases.

Section 550. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application of the regulations on reopening procedures Other regulations on reopening procedures shall comply with the regulations on cassation procedures prescribed in this Code.
Chapter XXII SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR REVIEWING DECISIONS OF THE COUNCIL OF 
JUDGES OF THE SUPREME PEOPLE’S COURT

Section 551. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Requests, recommendations and applications for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People’s Court 1. When there are grounds to prove that decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Courts are seriously contrary to law or there are newly discovered important details which might basically change the contents of the decisions that are unknown to Councils of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court and involved parties when such decisions are issued, if there are requests of the Standing committee of the National Assembly, recommendations of National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee; recommendations of Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy or at the requests of the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court, then such decisions shall be reviewed by the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court.
2. If it is requested by the Standing committee of the National Assembly, the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court shall report such requests to the Council of Judges of the Supreme
People‟s Court for reviewing the decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court.
3. If there are recommendations by the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee and/or recommendations of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy or the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court when new violations or details are discovered, then the Chief Justice shall report such to the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court for considering such recommendations/requests.
4. Meetings of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court for considering recommendations/requests specified in clause 3 of this Article must be attended by the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy.

Section 552. Original section/article: 359. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People’s Court 1. When requests of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, recommendations of National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee have been received or when the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court have issue written requests for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court provided for in clauses 2 and 3

Section 553. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Supreme People‟s Court shall send to the Supreme People‟s Procuracy copies of such requests or recommendations enclosed with the case files so that the Supreme People‟s Procuracy studies and prepares for presentations at the meetings for considering recommendations/requests. Within 15 days from the day on which the case files are received, the Supreme People‟s Procuracy must return them to the Supreme People‟s Court.
2. Within 01 month from the day on which recommendations of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee or recommendations of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy are received or from the day on which the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court make written requests, the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must hold meetings for considering such recommendations/requests.
The Supreme People‟s Court shall notify in writing the time of opening of meetings for considering recommendations/requests to the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy.
Representatives of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee shall be invited to attend the meetings of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court to consider the recommendations of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee.
3. The Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall consider the recommendations/requests according to the following order:
a) The Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court shall, by themselves or by assigning a member of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, present briefly the contents of the cases and the processing of the cases;
b) Representatives of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee, the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy, the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court which submitted recommendations/requests for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall present the contents of the recommendations/requests; grounds for such recommendations/requests; analysis and assessment of details of the cases, old evidences and additional evidences (if any) to clarify the serious violations against law in the decisions of the
Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court or new important details which can basically change the contents of such decisions;
c) In case of reviewing the recommendations of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee or reviewing requests of the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court, the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall present his/her viewpoints and reasons for agreement or disagreement with such recommendations/requests.
Opinions of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy must be presented in writing that bear the signature of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and must be sent to the Supreme People‟s Court within 05 working days from the day on which the meetings finish;
d) The Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall discuss and vote under the majority rule on the agreement or disagreement with the recommendations/requests for reviewing its decisions;
dd) If the recommendations of the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee, the recommendations of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy or the requests of Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court are agreed with, the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall make decisions on the holding of meetings for reviewing its decisions and request the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court to study the files before reporting such cases to the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court to consider and make decisions at the meetings for reviewing its decisions.
If the recommendations/requests are not agreed with, the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must notify such in writing to individuals and agencies proposing recommendations/requests and clearly state the reasons;
e) All happenings at the meetings for considering recommendations/requests and decisions approved at the meetings must be recorded in the meeting minutes and included in the recommendation/request-considering files;
g) Within 05 working days from the day on which the meetings for considering recommendations/requests for reviewing its decisions, the Council of Judge of the Supreme People‟s Court shall send to the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee notifications of its agreement or disagreement with such recommendations/requests.
4. Upon receiving requests of Standing Committee of the National Assembly or decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court on the opening of meetings for reviewing its decisions as prescribed in point dd clause 3 of this Article, the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court shall conduct the study of the case files and the verification and collection of materials and evidences when necessary.
The study of case files, the verification and collection of materials and evidences must clarify whether there are serious violations against law or new important details which may basically change the contents of decisions of the Judicial Council of the Supreme People‟s Court.
5. Within 04 months from the day on which requests of the Standing Committee of the National Assembly specified in clause 2

Section 554. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code or from the day on which the decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court specified in point dd clause 3 of this
Article are received, the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall hold meetings with the participation of all the Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court to review its decisions.
The Supreme People‟s Court shall send the Supreme People‟s Procuracy written notifications of time of opening the meetings for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court enclosed with the case files. Within 15 days from the day on which the case files are received, the Supreme People‟s Procuracy must return them to the Supreme People‟s Court.
The meetings held by the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must be attended by the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy. If it is deemed necessary, the Supreme People‟s Court may invite relevant agencies, organizations and individuals to attend the meetings.
6. The Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy must attend the meetings for reviewing decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court and express his/her viewpoints on whether or not there are serious violations against law or new important details which can basically change the contents of the decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court and his/her opinions about the resolution of the cases.
Opinions of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy must be presented in writing that bear the signature of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and must be sent to the Supreme People‟s Court within 05 working days from the day on which the meetings finish.
7. Within 01 month from the day on which the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court make decisions specified in clause 1

Section 555. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Supreme People‟s Court shall send such decisions to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly, the National Assembly‟s Judiciary Committee, the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and People‟s Court which have been in charge of resolving the cases and involved parties.

Section 556. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence to review decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People’s Court 1. After listening to the reports of the Chief Justice of the Supreme People‟s Court and opinions of the Chairperson of the Supreme People‟s Procuracy and of relevant agencies, organizations and individuals that are invited to attend the meetings (if any) and when deeming that decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court are seriously contrary to law or have new important details that basically change the contents of such decisions; or when deeming that legally effective judgments/decisions of inferior Courts are seriously contrary to law or have new important details that basically change the contents of such decisions, then on a case-by-case basis, the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court shall make decisions to:
a) Repeal decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, repeal legally effective judgments/decisions and decisions on contents of the cases;
b) Repeal decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, repeal legally effective judgments/decisions and determine responsibility of the Supreme People‟s Court for compensation for damages caused to involved parties as the result of the unconformable decisions that are repealed or determine responsibility for reimbursing the value of properties according to law;
c) Repeal decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court, repeal legally effective judgments/decisions to transfer the case files to the inferior Courts to resolve according to law.
2. Decisions of the Council of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court must be approved by at least three-fourths of its members to be effective.
PART SIX PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF CIVIL MATTERS 
Chapter XXIII GENERAL REGULATIONS ON PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF CIVIL 
MATTERS

Section 557. Original section/article: 361. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Scope of application Civil matters mean a situation where agencies, organizations or individuals have no disputes but request Courts to recognize or not to recognize a legal event which serves as a basis for the rise of civil, marriage and family, business, commercial or labor rights and obligations of their own or of other agencies, organizations or individuals; or request Courts to recognize their civil, marriage and family, business, commercial or labor rights.
Provisions of this Part shall be applied for the resolution of civil matters specified in clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10

Section 558. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11

Section 559. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, clauses 1, 2, 3 and 6

Section 560. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, clauses 1, 2 and 5

Section 561. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code. If the civil matters are not specified in this Part, other provisions of this Code shall be applicable.

Section 562. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions for the Court resolution of civil matters 1. Persons requesting Courts to resolve civil matters must send their petitions to competent Courts defined in

Section 563. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chapter III of this Code.
Any enforcers requesting the Courts to resolve civil matters according to provisions of the Law on enforcement of civil judgments shall have rights and obligations of persons requesting resolution of civil matters provided for in this Code.
2. A petition shall contain the following principal contents:
a) Date of making the petition;
b) Name of the Court that is competent to handle the petition;
c) Name, address; phone number, fax number, e-mail address (if any) of the petitioner;
d) Specific issues requested to be resolved by the court; reasons, purposes and bases of the request for Court resolution of such civil matters;
dd) Names and addresses of persons who are related to the resolution of such civil matters (if any);
e) Other information that are deemed by the petitioner to be necessary for the resolution of his/her petition;
dd) Signature or fingerprints, applicable to petitioners being individuals, or signature and seal of lawful representatives, applicable to applicants being agencies or organizations, in the end of the
application. If the petitioner is an enterprise, the use of the seal shall comply with provisions of the Law on Enterprise.
3. The petition must be accompanied by materials and/or evidences to prove that the petitions are well-grounded and lawful.

Section 564. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for receiving and processing petitions 1. Procedures for receiving petitions shall comply with regulations in clause 1

Section 565. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Within 0 working days from the day on which the petition and accompanied materials and evidences are received, the Chief Justice of the Court shall assign a Judge to handle the petition.
2. If the petition does not contain sufficiently information specified in clause 2

Section 566. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Judge shall request the petitioner to amend or supplement it within 07 days from the day on which the request is received. Procedures for amending and supplementing the petition shall comply with regulations in clause 1

Section 567. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. When the petition is satisfactory, the Judge shall carry out the procedures for acceptance of the civil matters.
Upon the expiry of the time limit specified in clause 2 of this Article, if the petitioner fails to amend/supplement the petition, the Judge shall return the petition and the accompanied materials and evidences to the petitioner.
4. If the petition and accompanied materials and/or evidences are deemed satisfactory to be accepted, the Judge shall carry out as follows:
a) The Court shall notify the petitioner about the payment of charge for civil matter resolution within 05 working days from the day on which the notice of charge payment is received, unless such petitioner is exempted from the charge as prescribed in law on fees and charges;
b) The Court shall accept the petition when the petitioner submit to the Court the receipt of civil- matter resolution charge;
c) If the petitioner is exempted from or does not have to pay the charge, the Judge shall accept the civil matter from the day on which the petition is received.

Section 568. Original section/article: 364. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Returning petitions 1. The petition shall be returned from the Court in the following cases:
a) The petitioner is not entitled to file the petition or does not have sufficient civil procedure act capacity;
b) The matter has been yet resolved by the Court or a competent agency;
c) The civil matter does not fall within the competence of the Court;
d) The petitioner fails to amend/supplement the petition within the time limit specified in clause 2

Section 569. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
dd) The petitioner fails to pay charge within the time limit specified in point a clause 4

Section 570. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, unless he/she is exempted from or does not have to pay charge or the charge is paid late due to force majeure events or objective obstacles;
e) The petitioner withdraw the petition;
g) Other cases provided for in law.
2. When returning the petition and accompanied materials and evidences, the Court shall notify in writing containing explanation.
3. The complaints about the return of the petition and resolution thereof shall comply with regulations in

Section 571. Original section/article: 365. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notices on the acceptance of petitions 1. Within 03 working days from the day on which the petition is accepted, the Court shall notify the petitioner, person with interests and duties relevant to the civil matter resolution and the procuracy of the same level in writing of the acceptance of the petition.
2. A notice must contain the following principal details:
a) Date of making of the notice;
b) Name and address of the Court accepting the petition;
c) Name and address of the involved parties;
d) Specific matters that the involved parties request the Court to resolve;
dd) List of materials and evidences that are accompanied by the petition;
e) Time limit for person with relevant interests and duties to provide opinions in writing to the Court about the petition and accompanied materials and evidences (if any);
g) Legal consequences of cases where the person with relevant interests and duties fail to submit the Court their opinions in writing for the petition for civil matter resolution.

Section 572. Original section/article: 366. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for petition consideration 1. Time limit for preparation for petition consideration shall be 01 month from the day on which the Court accept the petition, unless there are other provisions in this Code.
2. During the time limit for preparation for petition consideration, the Court shall carry out the following activities:
a) If the materials and evidences are not sufficient to serve as basis for the Court to resolve the matter, the Court shall request the involved parties to supplement materials and evidences within 05 working days from the day on which the request is received;
b) Upon the request of the involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Judge shall issue decision to request agencies, organizations and individuals to provide materials and evidences; summon witnesses, request property expertise and price assessment. If the time limit for preparation for petition consideration specified in clause 1 of this Article expires but the property expertise and/or price assessment results have not been produced, such time limit shall be extended for not exceeding 01 month;
c) Issue decision to terminate the consideration of petition and return the petition and accompanied materials and evidences if the petitioner withdraws the petition;
d) Issue decision to open a meeting to resolve civil matter.
3. The Courts must immediately send the decision to open the meeting to resolve civil matter and the dossiers on the civil matter to the procuracy of the same level for study. The procuracy must study them within 07 days from the day on which the dossier is received; when this time limit expires, the procuracy must return it to the Court for holding a meeting to resolve the civil matter.
4. The Court shall open a meeting to resolve civil matter within 15 days from the day on which the decision to open the meeting is issued.

Section 573. Original section/article: 367. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in meetings for resolving civil matters 1. Procurators of the procuracies of the same level must attend the meetings. In cases where they are absent, the Court shall still conduct the meeting.
2. The petitioner or their lawful representatives or defense counsels of their rights and interests must participate in the meeting according to the summon of the court.
If the petitioner is absent for the first time, the Court shall postpone the meeting, unless the petitioner request the Court to resolve the civil matter in their absence. If petitioner has been duly summoned twice but is still absent, he/she shall be deemed to waive his/her petition and the Court shall issue decision to terminate the resolution of the civil matters; in this case, the right to request the Court to resolve the civil matter according to the procedures prescribed by this Code shall still be guaranteed.
3. Person with relevant interests and duties or their lawful representatives or defense counsels of their rights and interests must participate in the meeting according to the summon of the court. In case of necessity, the Court may summon witnesses, expert-witnesses and/or interpreters to attend the meetings. If any of them is absent, the Court shall decide to postpone the meetings or to proceed with the meetings.

Section 574. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision on replacement of presiding officers in the process of resolution of civil matters 1. Before opening the meeting, the replacement of the Judge or clerk of meeting shall be decided by the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of such civil matter; if the to be-replaced is the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of the civil matter, the replacement shall be decided by the Chief Justice of the immediately superior court.
2. In the meeting for resolution of civil matters, the replacement of Judges or clerks of meeting shall be carried out as follows:
a) If the civil matter is handled by a Judge, the replacement of Judge or clerk of meeting shall be decided by the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of such civil matter; if the to be- replaced is the Chief Justice of the Court being in charge of the civil matter, the replacement shall be decided by the Chief Justice of the immediately superior court;
b) If the civil matter is handled by a civil matter-resolving councils composed of 3 Judges, the replacement of members of the Council or the clerk of meeting shall be decided by the civil matter-resolving council.
3. Before opening the meeting, the replacement of procurator shall be decided by the chairperson of the procuracy of the same level.
In the meeting, the replacement of the procurator shall be decided by the Judge or the civil matter-resolving council. If the procurator must be replaced, the Judge or the civil matter- resolving council shall issue decisions to postpone the meeting and notify such replacement to the procuracy.
The appointment of a procurator to take place of the replaced one shall be decided by the chairperson of the procuracy of the same level. If the to be-replaced procurator is the chairperson of the procuracy, the replacement shall be decided by the chairperson of the immediately superior procuracy.

Section 575. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for conducting meetings to resolve civil matters 1. A meeting to resolve civil matters shall be conducted in the following order:
a) The clerk of meeting shall report to the Judge and civil matter-resolving council about the presence or absence of participants in the meeting;
b) The Judge shall open the meeting; check the presence or absence of persons who are summoned to the meeting and their identity cards, introduce and explain rights and obligations of participants in the meeting;
c) Defense counsel of rights and interests of the petitioner, the petitioner or his/her lawful representative shall present specific issues that are requested to be dealt with by the court; reasons, purposes and grounds for requesting the Court resolution of such civil matters;
d) Related persons or their lawful representatives shall express their opinions on matters pertaining to their rights and obligations in the resolution of the civil matters;
dd) Witnesses shall present their opinions; or expert-witnesses shall present their conclusions and explain issues which remain unclear or contradictory (if any);
e) The Judge and the civil matter-resolving council shall review the materials and evidences;
g) The procurator shall present the procuracy's views on the resolution of the civil matters and shall send the writing containing opinions for the Court to save in the civil matter files when the meeting finishes;
h) The Judge and the civil matter-resolving council shall consider and decide to accept or not to accept the request for resolution of the civil matters.
2. If any person summoned by the Court to the meeting is absent, the Judge or the Civil matter- resolving council shall pronounce the testimonies, materials and evidences provided by such person before reviewing materials and evidences.

Section 576. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision on resolution of civil matters 1. A decision to resolve civil matters shall contain the following principal contents:
a) Date of making the decision;
b) Name of the Court that issues the decision;
c) Full names of the Judge, procurator, meeting clerk;
d) Full name and address of the petitioner for the resolution of civil matters;
dd) Specific matters requested to be resolved by the court;
e) Names and addresses of persons with relevant interests and duties;
g) Assessment of the Court and grounds for accepting or not accepting the petition;
h) Legal bases for resolution of civil matters;
i) Court's decisions;
k) Court fees to be paid.
2. Decisions to resolve civil matters must be forwarded to the procuracies of the same level, the petitioners for the resolution of civil matters and person with interests and duties relevant to the resolution of civil matters within 05 working days from the day on which the decisions are issued.
The forwarding of decisions to resolve civil matters to enforcement authorities shall comply with provisions of the Law on enforcement of civil judgments.
3. Legally effective courts‟ decisions to resolve civil matters that are relevant to the change of civil statuses of individuals must be sent to People‟s Committees where such individuals registered for civil statuses according to provisions of the Law on civil status.
4. Legally effective courts‟ decisions to resolve civil matters shall be published on e-portal of the Courts (if any), except for decisions containing information specified in clause 2

Section 577. Original section/article: 371. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeal and appeal against civil matter-resolving decisions Petitioners and persons with interests and duties relevant to civil matter resolution shall be entitled to appeal, the procuracies of the same level and immediate superior procuracy shall be entitled to appeal against civil matter-resolving decisions in order to request the immediate superior Court to re-settle them according to the appellate procedures, except for those prescribed in clause 7

Section 578. Original section/article: 372. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeal time limits 1. The petitioners and persons with interests and duties relevant to the resolution of civil matters may appeal against the civil matter-resolving decisions within 10 working days from the day on which the decisions are issued. In cases where they are not present at the civil matter-resolving meetings, such time limit shall be counted from the day on which they receive the civil matter- resolving decisions or the day on which such decisions are announced or posted up.
2. The procuracies at the same level shall be entitled to appeal against civil matter-resolving decisions within 10 days, the immediate superior procuracies shall be entitled to appeal within 15 days as from the day on which the Courts issue such decisions.

Section 579. Original section/article: 373. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consideration of appeals, appeals 1. Time limit for preparation for consideration of appeals shall be 15 days from the day on which the Courts receive the appeals.
2. Within the time limit for preparation for consideration of appeals, the Courts shall conduct the following activities:
a) If materials and evidences are not sufficient to serve as basis for the Courts to resolve the case, the Courts shall request the involved parties to supplement materials and evidences within 05 working days from the day on which the requests are received;
b) Upon the request of the involved parties or when it is deemed necessary, the Judge shall issue decisions requesting agencies, organizations and individuals to supply materials and evidences; summon witnesses, request expertise and price appraisal. If the time limit specified in clause 1 of this Article expires but the expertise/price appraisal results have not been produced, the time limit for preparation for consideration of appeals may be extended for not exceeding 15 days;
c) Within the time limit for preparation for consideration of appeals, if all the appellants withdraw their appeal petitions or the procuracies withdraw their appeal petitions, the Courts shall issue decisions to terminate the consideration of petitions according to appellate procedures. In these cases, civil matter-resolving decisions according to first-instance procedures shall effective from the days on which the appellate trial Courts issue the termination decisions;
d) The Courts shall decide to open the appellate meeting for the resolution of civil matters.
3. The Courts must immediately send such decisions to open appellate meetings to resolve civil matters and the civil matter files to the procuracies of the same level for study. The procuracies must study them within 07 days from the day on which the files are received; after this time limit, the procuracies must return the files to the Courts for holding meetings to resolve the civil matters.
4. Within 15 working days from the day on which the decision to open a meeting is issued, the Judge must open an appellate meeting resolve the civil matter.

Section 580. Original section/article: 374. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in appellate meetings to resolve civil matters 1. The procurators of procuracies of the same level shall participate in the appellate meeting to resolve civil matters; if the procurators are absent, the Court shall still hold the meeting, unless a procuracy appeals against the appeal review.
2. Persons applying appeal petitions, their lawful representatives and defense counsels of their rights and interests must participate in meetings according to the subpoena of the Court.
If the appellant is absent for the first time due to plausible reasons, the Court shall postpone the civil matter-resolving appellate meeting, unless the appellant request for resolution in their absence. If the appellant has been summoned twice but is still absent, he/she shall be deemed to waive their appeal and the Court shall issue decisions to terminate the appeal review of civil matter in the appeal, unless he/she apply for resolution in their absence or due to force majeure events or objective obstacles.
3. Persons with relevant interests and duties, their lawful representatives and defense counsels of their rights and interests shall be summoned by the Court to participate in the meeting. In case of necessity, the Court may summon witnesses, expert-witness and/or interpreters to attend the meetings. If any of them is absent, the Courts shall decide to postpone the meetings or to proceed with the meetings.

Section 581. Original section/article: 375. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for conducting appellate meetings to resolve civil matters 1. An appellate meeting to resolve civil matters shall be conducted in the following order:
a) The meeting clerk shall report on the presence or absence of meeting participants;
b) The Judge shall open the meeting; check the presence or absence of persons who are summoned to the meeting and their identity cards, introduce and explain rights and obligations of participants in the meeting;
c) Defense counsel of rights and interests of the appellant, the appellant or his/her lawful representative shall present about the appealed contents and grounds for such appeal;
If there is only appeal from the procuracy, the procurator shall present about the appealed contents and grounds for such appeal. If there is both appeal and appeal, involved parties shall present about the appealed contents and grounds for such appeal, then the procurator shall present about the appealed contents and grounds therefor. If the procuracy does not appeal, the procurator shall express their opinions of the procuracy about the handling of the appeal before the appellate panel makes decision.
Right after the meeting finishes, the procurator shall send the written opinion to the Court to be recorded in civil matter files;
d) Defense counsel of rights and interests of person with relevant interests and duties, persons with relevant interests and duties or their lawful representatives shall express their opinions on matters pertaining to their rights and obligations in the appealed contents;
dd) Witnesses shall present their opinions; or expert-witnesses shall present their conclusions and explain issues which remain unclear or contradictory.
2. If any person summoned by the Court to the meeting is absent, the Judge shall pronounce the testimonies, materials and evidences provided by such person.
3. The appellate panel shall consider the decision of the first-instance Court that is appealed against and relevant materials and evidences and issue one of the following decisions:
a) To uphold the decision on resolution of civil matter issued by the first-instance Court;
b) To modify the decision on resolution of civil matter issued by the first-instance Court;
c) To repeal the decision on resolution of civil matter issued by first-instance Court to re-settle according to first-instance procedures;
d) To repeal the decision on resolution of civil matter issued by the first-instance Court and terminate the resolution of the civil matter;
dd) Terminate the consideration of the petition according to appellate procedures if in the meeting all the appellants withdraw their appeal petitions and the procuracy withdraw the appeal petition.
4. Decisions to conduct appellate review of civil matter resolution shall take effect from the day on which they are issued and shall be sent to agencies, organizations and individuals as prescribed in clauses 2 and 3

Section 582. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. Legally effective decisions to conduct appellate review of civil matter resolution shall be posted on e-portal of the Court (if any), except for decisions containing information specified in clause 2

Section 583. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Chapter XXIV 
PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR DECLARING A PERSON LACKING CIVIL ACT CAPACITY, HAVING LIMITED CIVIL-ACT CAPACITY OR 
HAVING LIMITED COGNITION OR BEHAVIOR CONTROL

Section 584. Original section/article: 376. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to file petitions for declaring a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control 1. People with relevant rights and interests and concerned agencies and organizations may file petitions to Courts for declaring a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control.
2. Adult people having limited cognition due to physical and mental conditions but do not lack civil capacity may file petitions to Courts for declaring them having limited cognition or behavior control according to provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 585. Original section/article: 377. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of petitions Within the time when the petitions are considered, at the request of petitioners, Courts may request health assessment for the persons requested to be declared having limited civil-act capacity or forensic psychiatric assessment for the persons requested to be declared lacking legal capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control. In such cases, when the assessment results are received, Courts shall make decisions to open meetings for consideration of petitions.

Section 586. Original section/article: 378. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to declare a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control If the petitions are accepted, Courts shall issue decisions to declare a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control.
In the decision to declare a person having limited capacity of exercise, the Court shall determine lawful representative of the person with limited capacity of exercise and scope of representation.
In the decision to declare a person having limited cognition or behavior control, the Court must appoint his/her guardian and determine rights and duties of such guardian.

Section 587. Original section/article: 379. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to file petitions for repealing decisions to declare a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control When a person who is declared by a Court to be lacking of legal capacity, having limited civil- act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control is no longer in the declared conditions, then such person or persons with relevant rights and interests or concerned agencies or organizations may file petitions to the Court for issuing a decision to repeal the decision to declare the lack of legal capacity or limited civil-act capacity or limited cognition or behavior control.

Section 588. Original section/article: 380. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions of the Courts in case of accepting the petitions for repealing decisions to declare a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control If the petitions are accepted, the Courts shall issue decisions to repeal the decisions to declare a person lacking civil act capacity, having limited civil-act capacity or having limited cognition or behavior control.
Chapter XXV PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR ISSUING NOTICES ON 
SEARCH OF PERSONS ABSENT FROM THEIR RESIDENCE PLACES

Section 589. Original section/article: 381. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions for issuing notices on search of persons absent from their residence places 1. Persons with related rights and interests shall be entitled to request Courts to issue notices on search of persons absent from their residence places when such persons are absent for 06 consecutive months or more, and at the same time request Courts to apply measures for management of the properties of the absent persons under the provisions of the Civil Code.
2. Enclosed with the petitions for issuing notices on search of persons absent from their residence places, the petitioners shall send materials and evidences to prove that such persons are absent for 06 consecutive months or more. In case of petitions for the Courts to take measures to manage the properties of the absent persons, the petitioners must provide materials and evidences on the situation of properties of the absent persons, the management of the existing properties as well as the list of the absent persons‟ relatives.

Section 590. Original section/article: 382. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of petitions for issuing notices on search of persons absent from their residence places Within the above-mentioned time limit, the Courts may issue decisions to terminate the petition consideration if the persons on search notice return and request the Courts to terminate the consideration of the petitions.

Section 591. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to issue notices on search of persons absent from their residence places In case of accepting a petition the Court shall issue a notice on search of a person absent from his/her residence place. If a petition for the Court to take necessary measures to manage the properties of the absent person is accepted, the court‟s decision to accept the petition must also decide on the application of measures to manage the properties of such person according to the provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 592. Original section/article: 384. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notices on search of persons absent from their residence places A notice on search of a person absent from his/her residence place must contain the following principal contents:
1. Date of issuance of the notice;
2. Name of the Court that issues the notice;
3. Serial number and date of the court‟s decision to issue a notice on search of a person absent from his/her residence place;
4. Full name and address of the petitioner;
5. Full name, date of birth or age of the person to be searched for and the address of his/her latest residence place before his/her absence.
6. Addresses of agencies, organizations and individuals for contacts by the person to be searched for or other persons having information on the person to be searched for.

Section 593. Original section/article: 385. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Announcement of notices on search of persons absent from their residence places 1. Within 01 month from the day on which the Court issues decision to issue a notice on search of a person absent from his/her residence place, such decision must be posted on one of central dailies for three consecutive issues, e-portal of the Court and/or People's Committee of province (if any) and broadcasted on the central radio or television channels three times for 03 consecutive days.
2. All expenses for the publication or broadcasting of notices on search of persons absent from their residence places shall be borne by the petitioners.

Section 594. Original section/article: 386. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect of decisions on issuance of notices on search of persons absent from their residence places Decisions on issuance of notices on search of persons absent from their residence places prescribed in

Section 595. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall automatically expire in cases where the persons to be searched for return.
Chapter XXVI PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR DECLARING A PERSON 
MISSING

Section 596. Original section/article: 387. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petition for declaring a person missing 1. Persons with related rights and interests shall be entitled to request the Court to declare a person missing under the provisions of the Civil Code.
2. The petitions must be accompanied by materials and evidences to prove that the persons who are requested to be declared missing have been absent for 02 consecutive years or more without reliable information on whether they are still alive or dead and prove that the petitioners have taken sufficient measures for search notices. In cases where the Courts have issued decisions on notice on search of the persons absent from their residence places, copies of such decisions must also be submitted.

Section 597. Original section/article: 388. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of petition for declaring a person missing 1. Within 20 days as from the date of receiving a petition for declaring a person missing, the Court shall issue a decision on a notice on search of the person who is requested to be declared missing.
2. The content of such a notice and the announcement of the notice shall comply with the provisions of Articles 384 and 385 of this Code. The time limit for such a search notice shall be 04 months from the day on which such notice is posted or broadcasted for the first time.
3. Within the time limit for announcing a notice, if the petitioner withdraws his/her petition or the person who is requested to be declared missing returns and requests the Court to stop considering the petition, the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the consideration of the petition for declaring that person missing.
4. Within 10 days from the day on which the time limit for search notice prescribed in clause 2 of this Article expires, the Court must open meeting for considering the petition.

Section 598. Original section/article: 389. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision to declare a person missing 
In case of accepting a petition, the Court shall issue a decision declaring a person missing. In cases where the Court is requested to take measures to manage properties of the person who is declared missing and the request is accepted, the decision declaring a person missing must also indicate specific measures to be taken to manage properties of that person according to the provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 599. Original section/article: 390. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Annulment of a decision to declare a person missing 1. The person who returns after being declared missing or persons with related rights and interests is entitled to request the Court to annul the decisions to declare a person missing as provided for in the Civil Code.
2. In case of accepting a petition, the Court shall issue a decision to annul the decision that has declared a person missing, deciding on the legal consequences of the annulment of the decision declaring such person missing under the provisions of the Civil Code.
Chapter XXVII PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR DECLARING PERSONS 
DEAD

Section 600. Original section/article: 391. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to file petition for declaring a person dead 1. Persons with related rights and interests may request the Court to declare a person dead according to the provisions of the Civil Code.
2. The petitions must be accompanied by materials and evidences to prove that the persons who are requested to be declared dead are of the cases specified by the Civil Code.

Section 601. Original section/article: 392. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of petition for declaring a person dead 1. Within 20 days as from the date of receiving a petition for declaring a person dead, the Court shall issue a decision on a notice on search of the person who is requested to be declared dead.
2. The content of such a notice, the announcement of the notice and the time limit for announcement shall comply with the provisions of Articles 2 and 388 of this Code.
3. Within the time limit for announcing a notice, if the petitioner withdraws his/her petition or the person who is requested to be declared dead returns and notify the Court, the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the consideration of the petition for declaring that person dead.
4. Within 10 days from the day on which the time limit for announcement of notice expires, the Court shall open a meeting to consider the petition.

Section 602. Original section/article: 393. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision to declare a person dead In case of accepting a petition, the Court shall issue a decision declaring a person dead. In such decision, the Court shall determine the day on which that person died and the legal consequences of declaring a person dead according to the provisions of the Civil Code.

Section 603. Original section/article: 394. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions to annul decisions that have declared persons dead 1. In cases where the person who is declared dead returns or where there is reliable information affirming that such person is still alive, that person or persons with related rights and interests may request the Court to issue decision to annul the decision that has declared such person dead.
2. The petitions must be accompanied by materials and evidences to prove that the persons who are declared dead have returned or are still alive.

Section 604. Original section/article: 395. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to annul decisions that have declared persons dead In case of accepting a petition, the Court shall issue a decision to annul the decision that has declared a person dead. In the latter decision, the Court must determine the legal consequences of the annulment of the decision declaring a person dead according to the provisions of the Civil Code.
Chapter XXVIII PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR RECOGNITION OF VOLUNTARY DIVORCES AND AGREEMENTS ON CHILD CUSTODY AND 
PROPERTY DIVISION UPON DIVORCES

Section 605. Original section/article: 396. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces 1. Any person requesting for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces must submit petitions. A petition must include information specified in clause 2

Section 606. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Any person requesting for recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces must submit petitions. In such cases, both husbands and wives shall be considered the petitioners.
3. Enclosed with the petitions shall be materials and evidences proving that agreements on voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces are well-grounded and lawful.

Section 607. Original section/article: 397. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Mediation and recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division upon divorces 1. Within the time for preparation for recognition of petitions, before conducting mediations to unify husbands and wives, when it is deemed necessary, Judges may ask for opinions of family affair authorities and/or children affair authorities about conditions of families of such husbands and wives, reasons for the rising of contradictions and expectation of husbands, wives and children related to the cases.
2. Judges must conduct mediations to unify husbands and wives; explain about rights and obligations between wife and husband, parents and children and between members of family and rights and obligations in providing alimonies and other matters related to marriage and family.
3. If after the mediations, the wives and the husbands decide to reunite, Judges shall issue decisions to terminate the resolution of their petitions.
4. If the mediations are not successful, the Judges shall make decisions to recognize the voluntary divorces and agreements between involved parties as provided for in

Section 608. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code in the following conditions are fully satisfied:
a) The two sides really volunteer to divorce;
b) The two sides have reached agreements on whether or not to divide the common properties, on the care, rearing and education of their children;
c) Such agreements ensure the legitimate interests of the wives and their children.
5. If the mediations for reunification are not successful and involved parties cannot reach agreements about the division of properties and the care, rearing and education of children, then the Courts shall terminate the settlement of civil matters pertaining to recognition of voluntary divorces and agreements on child custody and property division and accept the cases for resolution. The Courts are not required to make notifications of the acceptance of the cases or to assign other Judges to take charge of the cases. The settlement of the cases shall be conducted according to common procedures prescribed in this Code.
Chapter XXIX PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR DECLARATION OF 
NOTARIZED DOCUMENTS TO BE INVALID

Section 609. Original section/article: 398. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid 1. Notaries who have carried out notarization, requesters for notarization, witnesses, persons with related rights and interests and competent state agencies may request Courts to declare notarized documents invalid when they have grounds to believe that the notarization was performed against the law on notarization.
2. A petition for a Court to declare a notarized document invalid must contain the details prescribed in Clause 2,

Section 610. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. Accompanying the petition for a Court to declare a notarized document invalid must be materials and evidences to prove that such petition is well-grounded and lawful.

Section 611. Original section/article: 399. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of petitions for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid 1. The time limit for preparing for consideration of a petition for declaration of a notarized document to be invalid shall be 01 month, counting from the day on which the Court accepts such petition. Past this time limit, the Court shall issue a decision to open a meeting to consider the petition.
2. After accepting a petition for declaration of a notarized document to be invalid, the competent Court shall immediately notify such to the notary bureau, notary office or notary that has performed the notarization, notarization requester, persons with related rights and interests, competent state agencies and same-level procuracies.
3. Within the time limit for preparing for consideration of a petition, if the petitioner withdraws his/her petition, the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the consideration of the petition.
4. Within 15 days after issuing a decision to open a meeting, the Court shall open the meeting to consider the petition.

Section 612. Original section/article: 400. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions to declare notarized documents invalid 1. The Court may accept or not accept petitions for declaration of notarized documents to be invalid.
2. In case of accepting a petition, the Court shall issue a decision to declare a notarized document invalid. In this decision the Court shall decide on legal consequences of its declaration as prescribed by law.
Chapter XXX PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF PETITIONS FOR DECLARATION OF LABOR CONTRACTS/COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS TO BE 
INVALID

Section 613. Original section/article: 401. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Petitions for declaration of a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid 1. Employees, employers, representative organizations of employees‟ collectives and competent agencies may request competent Court to declare a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid when they have grounds provided for in the Labor Code.
2. A petition of an employee/employer/representative organization of employees‟ collective and a written request of competent agencies must contain the details specified in clause 2

Section 614. Original section/article: 402. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consideration of petitions for declaration of a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid 1. The time limit for preparing for consideration of a petition for declaration of a labor contract to be invalid shall be 10 days, declaration of a collective bargaining agreement to be invalid, counting from the day on which the Court accepts such petition. Past this time limit, the Court shall issue a decision to open the meeting for considering the petition.
2. After accepting the petition for declaration of a labor contract or a collective bargaining agreement to be invalid, the Court shall send the notification of acceptance to the petitioner, the employer, the employee collective‟s representative organizations and the procuracy of the same level.
3. Within the time limit for preparing for consideration of a petition or a written request, if the petitioner withdraws his/her petition, the Court shall issue a decision to terminate the consideration of such petition/request.
4. Within 05 working days after issuing the decision to open a meeting, the Court shall open the meeting to consider the petition for declaration of a labor contract to be invalid.
Within 10 working days after issuing the decision to open a meeting, the Court shall open the meeting to consider the petition for declaration of a collective bargaining agreement to be invalid.
5. When considering the petition, the Judge may accept or not accept the request for declaration of labor contract or collective bargaining agreement to be invalid.
If the request is accepted, the Judge shall issue a decision to declare the labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid. In this decision, the Judge shall settle the legal consequence of the declaration of the labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid.
6. The decision to declare a labor contract/collective bargaining agreement to be invalid must be sent to the petitioner or requester, the employer, the employee collective‟s representative organization and the labor affair authority of the area where the enterprise is headquartered and labor affair authorities of the same level, applicable to cases pertaining to enterprises do not have main headquarters in Vietnam.
Chapter XXXI PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERING THE LEGITIMACY OF A STRIKE

Section 615. Original section/article: 403. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Requesting a Court to consider the legitimacy of a strike 1. During a strike or within 03 months from the day on which the strike comes to an end, either the employer or the employee collective‟s representative organization may request the Court to consider the legitimacy of a strike.
2. Person requesting the Court to consider the legitimacy of a strike must send the request to the Court in writing. Such written request must contain the following principal details:
a) Details specified in clause 2

Section 616. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Name and address of the organization that led the strike;
c) Name and address of the employer of the employees‟ collective on strike.
3. The request must be enclosed with copies of the decision to go on strike, decision or mediation record of a competent agency or organization engaged in the settlement of the collective labor dispute, materials and evidences related to the consideration of the legitimacy of the strike.

Section 617. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for sending a written request to a Court for consideration of the legitimacy of a strike Procedures for sending and receiving a written request and performing the obligation to provide materials and evidences for a Court for the consideration and decision on the legitimacy of a strike at the Court shall be conformable to provisions of this Code.

Section 618. Original section/article: 405. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction to consider the legitimacy of a strike 1. The People‟s Court of province where the strike takes place shall have the jurisdiction to consider the legitimacy of the strike.
2. Collegial People‟s Courts shall have the jurisdiction to settle the appeals against the decisions of People‟s Courts of provinces on the legitimacy of the strikes within their territorial competence.

Section 619. Original section/article: 406. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Composition of the panel in charge of considering the legitimacy of a strike 1. A People‟s Court of province shall consider the legitimacy of a strike through a panel comprised of 3 Judges.
2. A Collegial People‟s Court shalls settle an appeal against a decision on the legitimacy of a strike through a panel comprised of 3 Judges.

Section 620. Original section/article: 407. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Participants in a meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike 1. The panel in charge of considering the legitimacy of the strike chaired by one Judge; the Court clerk for recording the meeting minute.
2. Procurators of the procuracy of the same level.
3. Representatives of the employee collective‟s representative organization and the employer.
4. Representatives of other agencies and organizations as requested by the Court.

Section 621. Original section/article: 408. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Postponement of a meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike 
1. A meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike shall be postponed according to regulations in

Section 622. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code provided for the postponement of a Court session.
2. The postponement of a meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike must not exceed 03 working days from the day on which the decision to postpone the meeting is made.

Section 623. Original section/article: 409. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of the consideration of the legitimacy of a strike The Court shall terminate the consideration of the legitimacy of a strike in the following cases:
1. The petitioner withdraw his/her petition;
2. Parties have reached agreement on the settlement of the strike and request in writing to the Court for not settling the strike;
3. The petitioner is absent though has been duly summoned twive, except for force majeure events or objective obstacles.

Section 624. Original section/article: 410. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for processing a written request for consideration of the legitimacy of a strike 1. Upon the receipt of a petition, the Chief Justice of People‟s Court of province shall decide to establish a Panel to consider the legitimacy of the strike and assign one Judge to take main charge of settling such petition.
2. Within 05 working days from the day on which the petition is received, the Judge assigned to presider over the settlement of the petition must make a decision to hold a meeting for considering the legitimacy of the strike. The deicision to hold a meeting for considering the legitimacy of the strike must be immediately sent to the representative organization of employees‟ collective, the employerm the procuracy of the same level and relevant agencies and organizations.
3. Within 05 working days from the day on which the decision to hold a meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike is issued, the Panel in charge of considering the legitimacy of the strike must hold a meeting for considering the legitimacy of the strike.

Section 625. Original section/article: 411. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Process of a meeting for considering the legitimacy of a strike 1. The Judge presiding over the meeting for considering the legitimacy of the strike announces the decision to hold a meeting for considering the legitimacy of the strike and summarize the petition.
2. Representative of the employee collective‟s representative organizations and representative of the employer present their opinions.
3. The Judge presiding the meeting for considering the letigimacy of the strike may request representatives of agencies and organizations participating in the meeting to express their opinions.
4. The procurator presents opinions of the procuracies about the consideration of the legitimacy of the strike.
Immediately when the meeting finishes, the procurator shall send the opinions in writing to the Court for recording in the civil-matter files.
5. The panel considering the legitimacy of the strike discusses and makes decision under the majority rule.

Section 626. Original section/article: 412. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decision on the legitimacy of a strike 1. A decision of the Court on the legitimacy of a strike must clearly state the reason and grounds to conclude on the legitimacy of the strike.
The decision of the Court on the legitimacy of a strike must be publicly announced at the meeting and must be immediately sent to the employee collective‟s representative organization, the employer and the procuracy of the same level. The employees„ collective and the employer shall be responsible for implementing the decision of the Court but may also file appeals and the procuracy may file appeals against such decision.
2. When the decision of the Court on the legitimacy of the strike has been announced, if the strike is ruled to be illegal, the employees on strike must immediately stop goin on strike and return to work.

Section 627. Original section/article: 413. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Order and procedures for settling appeals against the decisions on the legitimacy of a strike 1. Immediately when the appeallate petition or the appeal decision against the legitimacy of a strike is received, the Collegial People‟s Court shall request in writing the Court that has considered the legitimacy of the strike to forward the files of the case to it for consideration/settlement.
2. Within 03 working days from the day on which the petition is received, the Court that has issued the decision on the legitimacy of the strike must forward the case files to the Collegial People‟s Court for considering and settling.
3. Within 02 working days from the day on which the case file is received, the Chief Justice of the Collegial People‟s Court shall make decisions to formulate an Appellate Panel to consider the legitimacy of the strike and assign a Judge to preside over the study of files.
Within 05 working days from the day on which the Collegial People‟s Court receives the case files, the Appellate Panel shall consider the appeal against the decision on the legitimacy of the strike.
The decision of the Appeallate Panel on the legitimacy of the strike shall be the final one.
Chapter XXXII PROCEDURES FOR RESOLUTION OF CIVIL MATTERS RELATING TO 
COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION ACTIVITIES IN VIETNAM

Section 628. Original section/article: 414. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil matters relating to Vietnamese commercial arbitration activities that fall under the jurisdiction of the court 1. Appointment or change of arbitrators;
2. Application, change or cancellation of provisional emergency measures.
3. Annulment of arbitral award.
4. Resolution of complaints against decisions of the arbitral tribunal about invalid arbitration agreements, inexecutable arbitration agreements or jurisdiction of arbitral tribunal.
5. Collection of evidences.
6. Summoning witnesses.
7. Registration of arbitral award.
8. Other civil matters prescribed by the legislation on Vietnamese commercial arbitration.

Section 629. Original section/article: 415. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Resolving procedures Procedures for resolution of civil matters pertaining to Vietnamese commercial arbitration activities shall comply with the provisions of the legislation on Vietnamese commercial arbitration.
Chapter XXXIII PROCEDURES FOR RECOGNITION OF SUCCESSFUL OUT-OF-COURT 
MEDIATION RESULTS

Section 630. Original section/article: 416. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recognition of successful out-of-Court mediation results The Court shall consider issuing the decision to recognize the result of an out-of-Court mediation in a dispute between agencies, organizations and individuals that is conducted by a competent agency, organization or individual according to law regulations on mediation to be a successful mediation result.

Section 631. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Conditions for recognition of successful out-of-Court mediation result 1. Parties of the mediation agreement have sufficient civil act capacity.
2. Parties of the mediation agreement are persons who have rights and obligations towards the mediation contents. If the successful mediation contents are related to rights and obligations of a third party, such mediation must be agreed by such party.
3. Either or both parties file application to the Court for recognition of the mediation.
4. Contents of the successful mediation are totally voluntary and are not contrary to law, not contrary to social ethics nor for evasion of obligations towards the State or the third party.

Section 632. Original section/article: 418. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for recognition of successful out-of-Court mediation results 1. Any person applying for successful out-of-Court mediation results must submit his/her application to the Court within 06 months from the day on which the successful mediation agreement between parties are reached.
An application must contain the following principal details:
a) Those specified in points a, b, c, dd, e and g clause 2

Section 633. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Name and address of individual/organization conducting the mediation;
c) The contents of successful mediation agreement to be recognized by the Court.
2. Enclosed with the application shall be documents about the successful mediation result according to relevant law provisions.

Section 634. Original section/article: 419. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for recognition of successful out-of-Court mediation results 
1. Procedures for receiving and processing a successful out-of-Court mediation result shall comply with regulations specified in

Section 635. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 and 365 of this Code.
2. The time limit for preparing for consideration of an application shall be 15 days from the day on which it is accepted by the Court; past this time limit, the Court shall issue decisions to hold a meeting for considering the application.
The time limit for opening a meeting for considering the application shall be 10 days from the day on which the Court issues the decision to open the meeting.
3. Within the time limit for preparing for consideration of the application, the Judge assigned to consider the application shall have the following rights:
a) To request the parties in the mediation and persons with relevant interests and duties to express opinions about the request of the applicant for recognition of successful mediation result and/or to clarify the request or supplement materials if necessary;
b) To request agencies, organizations or individuals having jurisdiction to conduct mediation to supply the Court materials to serves as the basis for the consideration of application of involved parties if it is deemed necessary.
Agencies, organizations and individuals receiving the requests of the Court shall respond within 05 working days from the day on which such requests are received.
4. Participants in the meeting for consideration of the application and procedures for consideration of the application shall comply with regulations in

Section 636. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. The Judge shall make decisions to recognize the successful out-of-Court mediation result when conditions specified in

Section 637. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are fully satisfied. A decision of the Court must contain the details specified in

Section 638. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
6. The Judge shall make decisions to not recognize the successful out-of-Court mediation result when conditions specified in

Section 639. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code are not fully satisfied.
The refusal to recognize the successful out-of-Court mediation result shall not affect the contents and legal value of such out-of-Court mediation result.
7. The decision to recognize or to not recognize a successful out-of-Court mediation result shall be sent to the parties of the mediation agreement, persons with relevant interests and duties and the procuracy of the same level.
8. The decision to recognize or to not recognize a successful out-of-Court mediation result shall immediately take effect and shall not be appealed against according to appellate procedures.
9. The decision to recognize or to not recognize the successful out-of-Court mediation result shall be enforced according to law regulations on enforcement of civil judgments.
Chapter XXXIV PROCEDURES FOR SETTLEMENT OF CIVIL MATTERS RELATED TO THE 
ARREST OF AIRCRAFTS OR SEAGOING VESSELS

Section 640. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to request the Court to arrest an aircraft or a seagoing vessel 
1. Any agencies, organizations or individuals shall be entitled to request the Court to arrest an aircraft at an airport or an airfield to ensure the benefits of the creditor, owner or the third party who suffer damage on the surface or other people with rights and interests towards the aircraft or to enforce a civil judgment according to law regulations on Vietnam‟s civil aviation.
2. Any agencies, organizations or individuals may request the Court to arrest a seagoing vessel to ensure the settlement of maritime complaints to enforce a civil judgment or to provide Judicial assistance.

Section 641. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction of the Court to arrest an aircraft or a seagoing vessel 1. The People‟s Court of province where is the location of the airport/airfield where the aircraft which is requested to be arrested landed shall have jurisdiction to make a decision to arrest such aircraft.
2. The People‟s Court of province where is the location of the seaport/inland port where the seagoing vessel which is requested to be arrested is operating shall have the jurisdiction to make a decision to arrest such vessel. If such seaport is comprised of multiple wharves that are located in multiple provinces and central-affiliated cities, the People‟s Court of province where is the location of the wharf where the seagoing vessel which is requested to be arrested is operating shall have the jurisdiction to make a decision to arrest such vessel.

Section 642. Original section/article: 422. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for arresting aircrafts or seagoing vessels Procedures for processing civil matters related to the arrest of an aircraft or a seagoing vessel shall comply with law regulations on arrest of aircrafts and/or seagoing vessels.
PART SEVEN PROCEDURES FOR RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT IN VIETNAM OR NON- RECOGNITION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN COURTS; 
RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN ARBITRAL AWARD Chapter XXXV 
GENERAL REGULATIONS ON PROCEDURES FOR RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT IN VIETNAM OR NON-RECOGNITION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS 
OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN COURTS; RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN ARBITRAL AWARD

Section 643. Original section/article: 423. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Foreign courts’ civil judgments or decisions which shall be recognized and enforced in Vietnam 1. The following foreign courts‟ civil judgments/decisions shall be recognized and enforced in Vietnam:
a) Civil, marriage, family, trade, business, labor – related judgments/decisions, decisions on properties in criminal/administrative judgments/decisions of Courts of a foreign country are provided for in International treaty to which both Vietnam and such country are signatories;
b) Civil, marriage, family, trade, business, labor – related judgments/decisions; decisions on properties in criminal/administrative judgments/decisions of Courts of a foreign country which does not sign an International treaty with Vietnam that contains regulations on recognition and
enforcement of judgments and decisions of foreign Courts on the basis of principle of reciprocity;
c) Other judgments or decisions of foreign courts, which are recognized and enforced under Vietnamese law.
2. Decisions on personal identities, marriage and family of other foreign competent agencies shall be considered being recognized and enforced in Vietnam like civil judgments and decisions of foreign Court provided for in clause 1 of this Article.

Section 644. Original section/article: 424. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Foreign arbitrators’ award which shall be recognized and enforced in Vietnam 1. The following foreign arbitrators‟ award shall be considered being recognized and enforced in Vietnam:
a) Arbitral award of a foreign country which is a signatory to an International treaty about recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral award together with Vietnam;
b) Foreign arbitral award other than those specified in point a of this clause on the basis of principle of reciprocity.
2. Foreign arbitral award specified in clause 1 of this Article shall be considered being recognized and enforced in Vietnam shall be the final ones of the arbitral tribunal that resolve all the contents of the dispute, finish the arbitral procedures and are effective.
3. Foreign arbitral, foreign arbitral award provided for in clause 1 of this Article shall be determined according to provisions of Vietnamese Law on commercial arbitration.

Section 645. Original section/article: 425. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Right to apply for recognition and enforcement or non-recognition of civil judgments or decisions of foreign courts; recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral award 1. The judgment creditors or their lawful representatives may file petitions with Vietnamese Courts for recognition and enforcement of civil judgments or decisions of foreign Courts or foreign arbitral award if the judgment debtors being individuals reside or work in Vietnam, or the judgment debtors being agencies or organizations are headquartered in Vietnam or their properties related to the enforcement of the judgments or decisions of foreign Courts or foreign arbitral award exist in Vietnam at the time when the applications are filed.
2. Judgment debtors or their lawful representatives may request the Vietnamese Courts to refuse to recognize the civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts.
3. The involved parties, persons with related legitimate rights and interests or their lawful representatives may file their petition requesting Vietnamese Courts not to recognize civil judgments or decisions of foreign Courts which are not requested for enforcement in Vietnam.

Section 646. Original section/article: 426. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ensuring the right to appeal The involved parties shall be entitled to appeal and People‟s Procuracies of provinces and the Supreme People‟s Procuracy shall be entitled to appeal against Court decisions to recognize and enforce or not recognize civil judgments or decisions of foreign Courts or decisions to recognize and enforce foreign arbitral award to request Collegial People‟s Court to review under the provisions of this Code.

Section 647. Original section/article: 427. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ensuring the effect of the decisions of Vietnam’s Courts on recognition and enforcement or non-recognition of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts; recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitrators’ award 1. A civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court recognized and enforced in Vietnam by a Vietnamese Court shall be legally effective as a legally effective civil judgment/decision of a Vietnamese Court and shall be enforced according to procedures for enforcement of a civil judgment. Any civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court that has not been recognized by a Vietnamese Court shall not be legally effective in Vietnam, except for cases where such judgment/decision is automatically recognized as provided for in

Section 648. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. Any award of a foreign arbitrator that is recognized and enforced in Vietnam shall be legally effective like an effective decision of Vietnamese Court and shall be enforced according to procedures for enforcement of a civil judgment.
3. A civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court or the award of a foreign arbitrator shall be enforced in Vietnam only when the decision of Vietnamese Court to recognize and enforce such civil judgment/decision and/or award takes legal effect.

Section 649. Original section/article: 428. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sending the decisions of Vietnam’s Courts on recognition and enforcement or on non-recognition of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts; recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitrators’ award The Court shall be responsible for sending directly or by post or through the Ministry of Justice its decision to the creditors and debtors of the civil judgment/decision of the foreign Court and/or the award of the foreign arbitrator or their lawful representatives, the procuracy and civil judgment-executing bodies according to provisions of this Code.

Section 650. Original section/article: 429. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ensuring the right to send money and properties from the enforcement of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts or foreign arbitrators’ award The State of Vietnam shall ensure the sending of money and property collected from the enforcement of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts or foreign arbitrators‟ award that are recognized and enforced by Vietnamese Courts to the countries issuing such judgments/decisions. The sending of such money and properties shall comply with Vietnam‟s law.

Section 651. Original section/article: 430. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Fees and charges for consideration of application for recognition and enforcement or non-recognition of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts; recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitrators’ award 1. Any person requesting a Vietnam‟s Court to recognize and enforce or to not recognize in Vietnam a civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court; or to recognize and enforce a foreign arbitrator‟s award must pay fees according to Vietnam‟s law.
2. Requesters specified in clause 1 of this Article must bear the cost of delivery to foreign countries the procedural documents of Vietnamese Courts that are relevant to their requests.

Section 652. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts, decisions of other foreign competent agencies that are automatically recognized in Vietnam 
1. Civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts and decisions of other foreign competent agencies which are not requested to be enforced or recognized in Vietnam specified in an International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
2. Judgments/decisions pertaining to marriage and family of foreign Courts, decisions on marriage and family of other competent agencies of countries which are not the co-signatories to an International treaty with Vietnam that are not requested to be enforced or recognized in Vietnam.
Chapter XXXVI PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR RECOGNITION AND ENFOREMENT IN VIETNAM OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF 
FOREIGN COURTS; PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION FOR NON-RECOGNITION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN 
COURTS

Section 653. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT IN VIETNAM OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN COURTS

Section 654. Original section/article: 432. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prescriptive periods for filing applications for recognition and enforcement 1. Within 03 years from the day on which the civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court takes legal effect, the judgment/decision creditors, persons with relevant legitimate rights and interests or their lawful representatives may submit their application to Vietnam‟s Ministry of Justice according to provisions of International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and home country of such foreign Court are co-signatories or to a competent Vietnam‟s Court specified in this Code to request recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of such civil judgment/decision.
2. In cases where the applicant can prove that he/she cannot submit the application within the time limit specified in clause 1 of this Article due to a force majeure event or an objective obstruct, the time periods when such force majeure event or objective obstruct occurs shall not be included in the time limit for submission of application.

Section 655. Original section/article: 433. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Applications for recognition and enforcement 1. An application for recognition and enforcement must contain the following principal details:
a) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives; if the judgment creditors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head-offices must be fully inscribed;
b) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgments debtors; if the judgments debtors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head- offices must be fully inscribed; in cases where the judgment debtors being individuals do not have residence places or work places in Vietnam or the judgment debtors being agencies or organizations do not have head-offices in Vietnam, their applications must also specify the addresses of the places where exist the properties and assorted properties relating to the enforcement in Vietnam of foreign courts‟ civil judgments/decisions;
c) Requests of judgment creditors; where foreign courts‟ judgments/decisions have been partly enforced, the judgment creditors must clearly state the executed parts and the remaining parts requested for recognition and continued enforcement in Vietnam.
2. Applications in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 656. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Papers and documents enclosed with the applications 1. The applications shall be enclosed with papers and documents specified in the International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the home countries of the Courts issuing the judgments/decisions are co-signatories. If the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the home country of the Court issuing the judgment/decision are co-signatories of an International treaty having provisions for such matter, the application shall be enclosed with the following papers and documents:
a) Originals or certified true copies of the judgment/decision issued by the foreign Court;
b) Documents made by the foreign Court or other competent foreign agencies certifying that such judgment/decision has taken legal effect, has not expired and should be enforced in Vietnam, except where these details have already been clearly stated in the judgment/decision;
c) Documents made by the foreign Court or other competent foreign agencies certifying the lawful delivery of such judgment/decision to the judgment debtors who have to execute such judgments/decisions;
d) In cases the foreign Court issue the judgment in the absence of the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives, documents made by the foreign Court or other competent foreign agencies certifying that they have been duly summoned are required.
2. Papers and documents enclosed with the application that are in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 657. Original section/article: 435. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Transferring of dossiers to Courts Within 05 working days after receiving the applications, papers and documents specified in clause 1

Section 658. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Ministry of Justice must send the dossiers to competent Courts as provided for in Articles 37 and 39 of this Code.

Section 659. Original section/article: 436. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Acceptance of dossiers Within 05 working days from the day on which the dossiers sent from the Ministry of Justice are received or from the day on which the applications and accompanying papers and documents sent from the applicants are received, the Courts shall base themselves on

Section 660. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 and 365 of this Code to consider and accept the dossiers and notify such to the applicants, the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives in Vietnam, the Procuracies of the same levels and the Ministry of Justice.

Section 661. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of applications 1. Within the term of preparation for consideration of an application, the Court may request the judgment creditors to explain unclear matters in the application; request the foreign Court issuing the judgment/decision to explain unclear matters in the dossier.
2. The written request of the Court for explanation shall be sent to the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives in Vietnam and the foreign Court by post.
If the Vietnamese Court request the foreign Court to make explanation, the written request shall be translated in to the language specified in the International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory. If the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the foreign country have not been the co-signatories to an International treaty, the dossier must be enclosed with the versions in the language of the country that is requested Judicial assistance or in a language agreed by the requested country. Applicants for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of judgments/decisions of foreign countries must bear the cost for translation and the postage on the written request for explanation of Vietnam‟s Courts to the foreign Courts.
3. Time limit for preparation for consideration of an application shall be 04 months from the day on which it is accepted. Within such time limit, on a case-by-case basis, the Court shall issue one of the following decisions:
a) To suspend the consideration of the application;
b) To terminate the consideration of the application;
c) To open a meeting for considering the application.
If a written request for explanation is sent by the Court as provided for in clause 1 of this Article, time limit for consideration of the application may be extended by not exceeding 02 months. Past such time limit, if the written explanation of the involved parties or the foreign Court has not been received by the Vietnam‟s Court, Vietnam‟s Court shall base itself on the documents in the dossier to resolve the application of the involved parties.
Within 01 days after issuing a decision to open a meeting for considering the application, the Court shall open the meeting.
Within 15 days before the meeting is opened, the Court shall transfer the dossier to the procuracy of the same level for study; past such time period, the procuracy shall return the dossier to the Court so that the meeting for considering the application can be opened.
4. The Court shall issue the decision to suspend the consideration of the application in any of the following circumstances:
a) The judgment debtor being individual has died or the judgment debtor being agency/organization has been merged, amalgamated, divided or dissolved without an agency, organization or individual to inherit his/her/its procedural rights and obligations;
b) The judgment debtor being individual lacks of legal capacity but his/her lawful representatives has not been determined;
c) Legal representation of the judgment debtor has finished but the replacing person has not been assigned;
d) The enforcement of the judgment/decision has been suspended at the home country of the Court issuing such judgment/decision;
dd) Such judgment/decision is being re-considered or being waited for re-consideration according to procedures of the home country of the Court issuing such judgment/decision.
5. The Court shall issue the decision to terminate the consideration of the application in any of the following circumstances:
a) The judgment creditor withdraw his/her application or the judgment debtor has voluntarity enforce the judgment/decision of the foreign Court;
b) The judgment debtor being individual has died but his/her rights and obligations have not been inherited;
c) The judgment debtor being agency/organization has been dissolved or bankrupted but its rights and obligations have been settled according to Vietnam‟s law;
d) The judgment debtor being agency/organization has been dissolved or bankrupted but its procedural rights and obligations have not been inherited;
dd) The decision of the Court to open the bankrupt procedures for the judgment debtor has been issued;
e) The Court cannot determine the address of the judgment debtor and the place exists the properties related to the enforcement;
g) The jurisdiction to resolve the application belongs to another Court and the dossier has been forwarded to such Court for resolution;
h) The Court cannot determine the place exists the properties related to the enforcement in Vietnam in case the judgment debtor being agency/organization does not have head office in Vietnam or the judgment debtor being individual does not reside or work in Vietnam.

Section 662. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Meetings for considering applications 1. The consideration of an application shall be conducted at a meeting by a Panel consisting of 3 Judges, one of whom shall act as the presiding Judge under the assignment of the Chief Justice of the Court.
2. The procurator of the procuracy of the same level shall attend the meeting; if the procurator is absent, the meeting shall be still conducted by the Court.
3. The meeting shall be conducted in the presence of the judgment creditors, judgment debtors or their lawful representatives; if any of them is absent for the first time, the meeting must be postponed.
The consideration of the application shall still proceed if the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives, or the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives have filed their applications to the Courts for consideration of the applications in their absence or if their lawful representatives have been duly summoned twice but are still absent.
The Panel shall issue decisions to terminate the consideration of the application if the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives have been duly summoned twice but are still absent or in any of the circumstances specified in clause 5

Section 663. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. When considering the application for recognition and enforcement, the Panel shall not conduct re-trial over the case when a foreign Court has issued judgment/decision for such case. The Court shall be only entitled to check and compare the civil judgment/decision of the foreign Court and accompanying papers and documents with provisions of Chapter XXXV and Chapter XXXVI of this Code, other relevant Vietnam's law provisions and International treaties to which the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory to form the basis for the issuance of decision to recognize and enforce such judgment/decision.5. After checking the application and accompanying papers and documents and listening to opinions of the summoned people and of the procurator, the Panel shall discuss and make decision under the majority rule.
The Panel shall be entitled to make a decision to recognize and enforce in Vietnam or decision to not recognize a civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court.
6. Within the time for preparation of the application, the first-instance Court shall be entitled to decide to apply, modify or repeal a provisional emergency measure specified in Chapter VIII of this Code.

Section 664. Original section/article: 439. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil judgments/decisions of foreign Court that shall not be recognized or enforced in Vietnam 1. Civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts that do not satisfy one of conditions for being recognized provided for in International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
2. Civil judgments/decisions that have not taken legal effect as provided for in law of the home countries of the Courts issuing them.
3. Judgment debtors or their lawful representatives are absent from the Court sessions of the foreign Courts because they have not been duly summoned or documents of the foreign Courts have not been delivered to them in a reasonable time period as prescribed in law of home country of such foreign Court so that such persons can exercise the right to self-defense.
4. The foreign Courts that have issued the judgments/decisions do not have jurisdiction to settle civil cases as prescribed in

Section 665. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
5. Such civil cases have been settled in legally effective civil judgments/decisions of Vietnamese Courts, or before the foreign agencies in charge accepted such cases, they have been accepted and are being proceeded by Vietnamese Courts, or such civil cases have been settled with civil judgments/decisions issued by Courts of third countries which have been recognized and allowed to be enforced by Vietnamese Courts.
6. Time limit for enforcement of judgments prescribed in law of the home countries of the Courts issuing such judgments/decisions or in Vietnam's law on civil judgment enforcement has been exceeded.
7. The enforcement of the judgments/decisions has been canceled or terminated at the home country of the Court issuing such judgments/decisions.
8. The recognition and enforcement of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Courts in Vietnam are contrary to basic principles of law of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

Section 666. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Foreign Courts having jurisdiction to settle disputes and requests Any foreign Court issuing a judgment/decision that is being considered to be recognized and enforced in Vietnam shall have jurisdiction to settle the civil case in the following cases:
1. The civil case does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnam‟s Courts specified in

Section 667. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. The civil case falls in a case specified in

Section 668. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code but has one of the following conditions:
a) The defendant participate in oral argument without appeal against the jurisdiction of such foreign Court;
b) Not any judgment/decision issued by a third country for such civil case is recognized and enforced by Vietnam‟s Court;
c) Such civil case has been accepted by a foreign Court before being accepted by a Vietnam‟s Court.

Section 669. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sending of decisions of Courts 1. Within 15 days from the day on which the decision specified in clause 5

Section 670. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is issued, the Court shall send such to involved parties or their lawful representatives, the Ministry of Justice and the procuracy of the same level.
2. Within 05 working days from the day on which the decision to suspend or terminate the resolution of the application provided for in clauses 4 and 5

Section 671. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is issued, the Court shall send such decision to involved parties or their lawful representatives, the Ministry of Justice and the procuracy of the same level.
3. Immediately when decisions to apply, modify or cancel a provisional emergency measure specified in clause 6

Section 672. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is issued, the Court shall send such decision to involved parties or their lawful representatives, competent civil-judgment-executing bodies, the Ministry of Justice and the procuracy of the same level.
4. The sending of decisions of the Court to involved parties living overseas shall comply with methods specified in

Section 673. Original section/article: 442. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeals 1. Within 07 days from the day on which the Court issue the decision to suspend/terminate the consideration of the application, and 15 days from the day on which the Court issue the decision to recognize and enforce or to not recognize the judgment/decision of a foreign Court, involved parties and their lawful representatives may file an appeal against such decision; if the involved parties and their lawful representatives did not attend the meeting for considering the application, the time limit for filing an appeal shall be counted from the day on which they receive such decision. The appellate petition must clearly state the reasons for the appeal and the appellate requests.
In cases where there are force majeure events or objective obstacles that the involved parties or their lawful representatives can not file an appeal within such time limit, the time when the force majeure events or objective obstacles occur shall not be included in the time limit for appeal.
2. The Chairpersons of the People‟s Procuracies of provinces or Chairpersons of the Collegial People‟s Procuracies may file appeals against the decisions of Courts specified in clauses 4 and 5

Section 674. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Time limit for filing an appeal is 07 days (applicable to the People‟s Procuracies of provinces) or 10 days (applicable to Collegial People‟s Procuracies) from the day on which the procuracy receives the decision.

Section 675. Original section/article: 443. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consideration of appeals 1. Collegial People‟s Court shall consider the decision of the People‟s Court of province which is appealed against within its jurisdiction within 01 month from the day on which the documents are received; if explanation is required as prescribed in clauses 1 and 2

Section 676. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, such time limit shall be extended for not exceeding 02 months.
2. Members of the Panel in charge of considering a decision that is appealed against shall be comprised of 3 Judges, one of which shall be the presiding Judge as assigned by the Chief Justice of Collegial People‟s Court.
A meeting for re-considering a decision that is appealed against shall be conducted as the one for considering the application specified in

Section 677. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The Panel for considering the decision being appealed against shall have the following powers:
a) To uphold the decision of the first-instance Court;
b) To modify partially of wholly the decision of the first-instance Court;
c) To suspend the settlement of the appeal;
d) To terminate the settlement of the appeal;
dd) To repeal the decision of the first-instance Court and forward the dossiers to such first- instance Court for re-settlement according to first-instance procedures;
e) To repeal the decision of first-instance Court and terminate the consideration of the application when existing any of circumstances specified in clause 5

Section 678. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. A decision of a Collegial People‟s Court shall take legal effect from the day on which it is issued and may be appealed according to cassation or reopening procedures according to provisions of this Code.

Section 679. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR NON- RECOGNITION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN COURTS

Section 680. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prescriptive periods for application for non-recognition in Vietnam of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Court 1. Within 03 years from the day on which the civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court takes legal effect, the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives may request Vietnam‟s Court to not recognize such civil judgment/decision.
2. In cases where the applicant can prove that he/she cannot submit the application within the time limit specified in clause 1 of this Article due to a force majeure event or an objective obstruct, the time periods when such force majeure event or objective obstruct occurs shall not be included in the time limit for submission of application.

Section 681. Original section/article: 445. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for non-recognition in Vietnam of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Court 1. The applicant specified in clause 1

Section 682. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must file an application. Such application must contain the following principal details:
a) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgments debtors; if the judgments debtors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head- offices must be fully inscribed; in cases where the judgment debtors being individuals do not have residence places or work places in Vietnam or the judgment debtors being agencies or organizations do not have head-offices in Vietnam, their applications must also specify the addresses of the places where exist the properties and assorted properties relating to the enforcement in Vietnam of foreign courts‟ civil judgments/decisions;
b) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives; if the judgment creditors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head-offices must be fully inscribed;
c) Requests of judgment debtors; where foreign courts‟ judgments/decisions have been partly enforced, the application must clearly state the executed parts and the remaining parts requested for non-recognition in Vietnam.
2. Applications in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 683. Original section/article: 446. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for non-recognition in Vietnam of civil judgments/decisions of foreign Court 1. The applications shall be enclosed with papers and documents specified in the International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory. If the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the home country of the Court issuing the judgment/decision have not been co- signatories of an International treaty having provisions for such matter, the application shall be enclosed with the originals or certified true copy of the judgment/decision issued by the foreign Court and papers and documents proving the request for non-recognition.
2. Papers and documents enclosed with the application that are in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.
3. Procedures for consideration of the application, the sending of decision of the Court, the filing of appeals and the consideration of the appeals shall be conducted according to regulations in corresponding articles in

Section 684. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
PROCEDURES FOR NON-RECOGNITION OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS OR DECISIONS OF FOREIGN COURTS WHICH ARE NOT REQUESTED TO BE ENFORCED IN VIETNAM

Section 685. Original section/article: 447. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Prescriptive periods for application for non-recognition of civil judgments or decisions of foreign Courts which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam 1. Within 06 months from the day on which the civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court takes legal effect but there is no request for enforcement of such Judgment/decision in Vietnam, then involved parties and persons with relevant legitimate rights and interests or their lawful representatives may submit their application to Vietnam‟s Ministry of Justice according to provisions of International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and home country of such foreign Court are co-signatories or to a competent Vietnam‟s Court specified in this Code, in case the International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory does not provide for or there is no relevant International treaty provisions, to request the Court to not recognize such civil judgment/decision.
2. In cases where the applicant can prove that he/she cannot submit the application within the time limit specified in clause 1 of this Article due to a force majeure event or an objective obstruct, the time period when such force majeure event or objective obstruct occurs shall not be included in the time limit for submission of application.

Section 686. Original section/article: 448. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for non-recognition of civil judgments or decisions of foreign Courts which are not requested to be enforced in Vietnam 1. An application for non-recognition of a civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court which is not requested to be enforced in Vietnam must have the following principal details:
a) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the applicants; if the applicants are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head-offices must be fully inscribed;
b) Requests of the applicants.
2. Enclosed with the application shall be the originals or certified true copies of the civil judgment/decision of foreign Court and necessary papers and documents for proving that the request for unrecognition is well-grounded and lawful.
3. The application and accompanying papers and documents that are in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 687. Original section/article: 449. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for acceptance and processing of application for non-recognition of a civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court which is not requested to be enforced in Vietnam 1. The acceptance of application, the preparation for consideration of application and the meeting for considering the application for non-recognition of a civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court which is not requested to be enforced in Vietnam shall be conducted according to regulations in Articles 436, 437 and 438 of this Code.
2. The Panel considering the application may any of the following decisions:
a) To not recognize the civil judgment/decision of the foreign Court;
b) To reject the application for non-recognition.
3. A civil judgment/decision of a foreign Court which is not requested to be enforced in Vietnam shall not be recognized in cases specified in

Section 688. Original section/article: 450. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sending decisions of Courts and regulations on appeal The sending of decisions of Courts; the appeal and the consideration of an appeal shall comply with regulations in

Section 689. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 442 and 443 of this Code.
Chapter XXXVII PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR RECOGNITION 
AND ENFORCEMENT IN VIETNAM OF FOREIGN ARBITRATOR’S AWARD

Section 690. Original section/article: 451. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for submission of applications for recognition and enforcement 1. Within 03 months from the day on which the foreign arbitrator‟s award takes legal effect, the judgment creditors and persons with relevant legitimate rights and interests or their lawful representatives may submit their application to Vietnam‟s Ministry of Justice according to
provisions of International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory or to a competent Vietnam‟s Court specified in this Code, in case the International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory does not provide for or there is no relevant International treaty provisions, to request the Court to not recognize and enforce such award.
2. In cases where the applicant can prove that he/she cannot submit the application within the time limit specified in clause 1 of this Article due to a force majeure event or an objective obstruct, the time period when such force majeure event or objective obstruct occurs shall not be included in the time limit for submission of application.

Section 691. Original section/article: 452. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Application for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign arbitrator’ award 1. An application for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign arbitrator‟ award must contain the following principal details:
a) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives in Vietnam; if the judgment creditors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head-offices must be fully inscribed;
b) Full names and addresses of residence places or work places of the judgments debtors; if the judgments debtors are agencies or organizations, the full names and addresses of their head- offices must be fully inscribed; in cases where the judgment debtors being individuals do not have residence places or work places in Vietnam or the judgment debtors being agencies or organizations do not have head-offices in Vietnam, their applications must also specify the addresses of the places where exist the properties and assorted properties relating to the enforcement in Vietnam of foreign arbitrator‟s award;
c) Requests of the judgment creditors.
2. Applications in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 692. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Papers and documents enclosed with the applications 1. The applications shall be enclosed with papers and documents specified in the International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory; in case where there is no International treaty or the International treaty does not provide for the case, the following papers and documents shall be enclosed with the application:
a) The originals or certified true copies of the foreign arbitrator‟s award;
b) The originals or certified true copies of arbitration agreements between parties.
2. Papers and documents enclosed with the application that are in foreign languages must be enclosed with their Vietnamese versions which are duly notarized or authenticated.

Section 693. Original section/article: 454. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding dossiers to Courts 1. Within 05 working days from the day on which the application and enclosed papers and documents specified in

Section 694. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Ministry of Justice shall forward them to the competent Court.
2. If the Ministry of Justice has forwarded the dossier to the Court and received notification from a competent agency of the foreign country informing that the case is being considered or the
enforcement of the foreign arbitrator‟s award has been canceled or terminated in such country, the Ministry of Justice must immediately notify in writing to the Court.

Section 695. Original section/article: 455. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Acceptance of dossiers Within 05 working days from the day on which the dossiers sent from the Ministry of Justice are received or from the day on which the applications and accompanying papers and documents sent from the applicants are received, the competent Courts shall base themselves on

Section 696. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 and 365 of this Code to consider and accept the dossiers and notify in writing such to the judgment creditors, the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives in Vietnam, the Procuracies of the same levels and the Ministry of Justice.

Section 697. Original section/article: 456. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forwarding dossiers to other Courts, settlement of disputes about jurisdiction If after accepting the case, the Courts deem that the settlement of application for recognition and enforcement in Vietnam the foreign arbitrator‟s award falls within the jurisdiction of another Courts of Vietnam, then the Court which has accepted the case shall issue a decision to forward the dossier to the jurisdictional Court and cross out such request on its acceptance book. Such decision shall be immediately sent to the procuracy of the same level and the involved parties.
Involved parties may file an appeal or the procuracy may file an appeal against such decision within 03 working days from the day on which such decision is received. Order and procedures for processing the appeals or settling disputes about jurisdiction shall comply with regulations in

Section 698. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Preparation for consideration of applications 1. Within 02 months from the date of acceptance, on a case-by-case basis, the Court shall issue one of the following decisions:
a) To suspend the consideration of the application;
b) To terminate the consideration of the application;
c) To open a meeting for considering the application.
Within the time limit for preparation for considering the application, the Court may request the judgment creditors to explain the unclear information in the application. In such case, the time limit for preparation for considering the application shall be extended for not exceeding 02 months.
Within 20 days after issuing a decision to open a meeting for considering the application, the Court shall open the meeting. Within 15 days before the meeting is opened, the Court shall transfer the dossier to the procuracy of the same level for study; past such time period, the procuracy shall return the dossier to the Court so that the meeting for considering the application can be opened.
2. The Court shall issue the decision to suspend the consideration of the application in any of the following circumstances:
a) Foreign arbitrator‟s award is being re-considered by a competent agency of the country where the award is made;
b) The judgment debtor being individual has died or the judgment debtor being agency/organization has been merged, amalgamated, divided or dissolved without an agency, organization or individual to inherit his/her/its procedure rights and obligations;
c) The judgment debtor being individual lacks of legal capacity but his/her lawful representatives has not been determined;
Within the time period of termination, the Judge assigned to settle the case shall be still responsible for resolving the application.
When the decision to suspend the resolution of the application has been issued as prescribed in this clause, the Judge shall be responsible for supervising and expediting agencies, organizations and individuals to eliminate the causes for such suspension as soon as possible to promptly continue processing the application. When the causes for the suspension no longer exist, the Judge shall make a decision to continue processing the application.
3. The Court shall issue the decision to terminate the consideration of the application in any of the following circumstances:
a) The judgment creditor withdraws his/her application or the judgment debtor has voluntarily enforce the foreign arbitrator‟s award;
b) The judgment debtor being individual has died but his/her rights and obligations have not been inherited;
c) The judgment debtor being agency/organization has been dissolved or bankrupted but its rights and obligations have been settled according to Vietnam‟s law;
d) The judgment debtor being agency/organization has been dissolved or bankrupted but its procedure rights and obligations have not been inherited;
dd) The Court cannot determine the places where exist properties in Vietnam of the judgment debtor according to the request of the judgment creditor of the arbitral award.

Section 699. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Meetings for considering applications 1. The consideration of an application shall be conducted at a meeting by a Panel consisting of 3 Judges, one of whom shall act as the presiding Judge under the assignment of the Chief Justice of the Court.
2. The procurator of the procuracy of the same level shall attend the meeting; if the procurator is absent, the meeting shall be still conducted by the Court.
3. The meeting shall be conducted in the presence of the judgment creditors, judgment debtors or their lawful representatives; if any of them is absent for the first time with plausible reasons, the meeting must be postponed.
The consideration of the application shall still proceed if the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives, or the judgment debtors or their lawful representatives have filed their applications to the Courts for consideration of the applications in their absence or if their lawful representatives have been duly summoned twice but are still absent.
The Panel shall issue decisions to terminate the processing of the application if the judgment creditors or their lawful representatives have been duly summoned twice but are still absent or in any of the circumstances specified in clause 3

Section 700. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. When considering the application for recognition and enforcement, the Panel shall not conduct re-trial over the dispute when the foreign arbitrator‟s award has been issued. The Court shall be only entitled to check and compare the foreign arbitrator‟s award and accompanying papers and documents with provisions of Chapter XXXV and Chapter XXXVII of this Code, other relevant Vietnam's law provisions and International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory to form the basis for the issuance of decision to recognize and enforce such award.
5. After checking the application and accompanying papers and documents and listening to opinions of the summoned people and of the procurator, the Panel shall discuss and make decision under the majority rule.
The Panel shall be entitled to make a decision to recognize and enforce in Vietnam the foreign arbitrator‟s award or decision to not recognize a foreign arbitrator‟s award.

Section 701. Original section/article: 459. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cases of non-recognition 1. The Court shall not recognize a foreign arbitrator‟s award when deeming that the evidences provided by the judgment debtors to the Court for appealing against the application for recognition are well-grounded and the arbitrator‟s award falls within one of the following cases:
a) The parties of the arbitration agreement do not have capacity to conclude such agreement according to law applicable to each party;
b) The arbitration agreement is not legally effective according to the law of a country which is chosen to be applied or according to the law of where the award is made in case the parties cannot choose a law to be applied to such agreement;
c) The judgment debtors being agencies, organizations and individuals are not promptly and conformably notified of the appointment of arbitrator officer and of procedures for processing the disputes at foreign arbitrator, or due to other plausible reasons, such agencies, organizations and individuals cannot exercise their procedure rights;
d) The foreign arbitrator‟s award over a dispute is not requested to be settled by any parties or exceeds the request of parties of the arbitration agreement. If it is able to separate the parts of the decision on the matter which are requested and not requested to be settled at foreign arbitrator, the decision on the matter requested to be settled may be recognized and enforced in Vietnam;
dd) Compositions of foreign arbitrator and/or procedures for settlement of disputes conducted by foreign arbitrator is not conformable to the arbitration agreement or to the law of the country where the foreign arbitrator‟s award has been made, in case the arbitration agreement does not provide for such matters;
e) The foreign arbitrator‟s award has not taken compulsory legal effect on parties;
g) The enforcement of the foreign arbitrator‟s award has been canceled or terminated by a competent agency of the country where such award is made or the home country of the law that is applied.
2. The foreign arbitrator‟s award shall not be recognized is the Vietnam‟s Court deems that:
a) According to Vietnam‟s law, the dispute shall not be settled according to arbitral procedures;
b) The recognition and enforcement in Vietnam of foreign arbitrator‟s award are contrary to basic principles of law of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

Section 702. Original section/article: 460. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sending of decisions of Courts 1. Within 05 working days from the day on which the decision to suspend or terminate the resolution of the application provided for in clauses 2 and 3

Section 703. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is issued, the Court shall send such decision to involved parties or their lawful representatives, the Ministry of Justice and procuracy of the same level.
2. Within 15 days from the day on which the decision to recognize and enforce or to not recognize in Vietnam the foreign arbitrator‟s award specified in clause 5

Section 704. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code is issued, the Court shall send such decision to involved parties or their lawful representatives, the Ministry of Justice and the procuracy of the same level. If the involved parties living overseas do not have lawful representatives in Vietnam and the Court has issued the decision in their absence according to regulations in clause 3

Section 705. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court shall send such decision to them by post or via the Ministry of Justice according to provisions of International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
3. The sending of decisions of the Court to involved parties shall comply with methods specified in

Section 706. Original section/article: 461. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Appeals 1. Within 07 days from the day on which the Court issue the decision specified in clauses 2 and 3

Section 707. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, involved parties and their legal representatives may file an appeal against such decision; if the involved parties and their lawful representatives did not attend the meeting for considering the application, the time limit for filing an appeal shall be counted from the day on which they receive such decision. The appellate petition must clearly state the reasons for the appeal and the appellate requests.
In cases where there are force majeure events or objective obstacles that the involved parties or their lawful representatives can not file an appeal within such time limit, the time when the force majeure events or objective obstacles occur shall not be included in the time limit for appeal.
2. The Chairpersons of the People‟s Procuracies of provinces or Chairpersons of the Collegial People‟s Procuracies may file appeals against the decisions of Courts specified in clauses 2 and 3

Section 708. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Time limit for filing an appeal is 07 days (applicable to the People‟s Procuracies of provinces) or 10 days (applicable to Collegial People‟s Procuracies) from the day on which the procuracy receives the decision.

Section 709. Original section/article: 462. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Consideration of appeals 1. Collegial People‟s Court shall re-consider the decision of the People‟s Court of province which is appealed against within 01 month from the day on which the documents are received; if explanation is required as prescribed in clause 1

Section 710. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, such time limit shall be extended for not exceeding 02 months.
2. Members of the Panel in charge of considering a decision that is appealed against shall be comprised of 3 Judges, one of which shall be the presiding Judge as assigned by the Chief Justice of Collegial People‟s Court. A meeting for re-considering a decision that is appealed against shall be conducted as the one for considering the application specified in

Section 711. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The Panel for considering the decision being appealed against shall have the following powers:
a) To uphold the decision of the first-instance Court;
b) To modify partially of wholly the decision of the first-instance Court;
c) To suspend the settlement of the appeal;
d) To terminate the settlement of the appeal;
dd) To repeal the decision of the first-instance Court and forward the dossiers to such first- instance Court for re-settlement according to first-instance procedures;
e) To repeal the first-instance decision and terminate the processing of the application when existing any of circumstances specified in clause 3

Section 712. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
4. The Panel for considering the decision being appealed against shall terminate the processing of an appeal in the following cases:
a) The involved party withdraws wholly his/her appeal or the procuracy withdraws wholly its appeal;
b) The involved party filing the appeal has been duly summoned twice but is still absent without an application for resolution in his/her absence.
If the involved party filing appeal withdraws wholly his/her appeal or the procuracy withdraws wholly its appeal before the appellate Court make a decision to open a meeting for considering such appeal, the Judge assigned to preside over the meeting shall make a decision to terminate the resolution of such appeal. If the involved party filing appeal withdraws wholly his/her appeal or the procuracy withdraws wholly its appeal when the appellate Court has made a decision to open a meeting for considering such appeal, appeal consideration Panel shall make a decision to terminate the resolution of such appeal.
In the following cases, the decision of the first-instance Court shall take legal effect from the day on which the appellate Court issues the decision to terminate the consideration of the appeal.
5. The Panel in charge of considering the decision being appealed against shall repeal the decision of the first-instance Court and forward the dossiers to such first-instance Court for re- processing according to first-instance procedures in the following cases:
a) The proving of the involved parties for protesting against the recognition of the foreign arbitrator‟s award or the grounds for the first-instance Court to make a decision to recognize or to not recognize the foreign arbitrator‟s award is unconformable to provisions of Chapter XXXV and Chapter XXXVII of this Code, other relevant provisions of Vietnam‟s law and of International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory;
b) Members of the Panel in charge of considering the application of the first-instance Court is unconformable to provisions of Chapter XXXVII of this Code or is seriously contrary to regulations on procedures that affects lawful rights and interests of involved parties.
6. A decision of a Collegial People‟s Court shall take legal effect from the day on which it is issued and may be appealed according to cassation or reopening procedures according to provisions of this Code.

Section 713. Original section/article: 463. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Termination of enforcement, repealing of decisions to recognize and enforce a foreign arbitrator’ award 1. Immediately when the written notification of a competent foreign agency of that the application for repealing or termination of the enforcement of foreign arbitrator‟s award is being considered sent by involved parties or the Ministry of Justice is received, the Court that has issued the decision to recognize and enforce in Vietnam such award shall request the Head of Civil judgment enforcement agency to issue decision to suspend the enforcement of the award.
Immediately when the request of the Court has been received, Head of the Civil judgment enforcement agency shall issue a decision to suspend the enforcement of the award and send such decision to the Court that has issued the decision to recognize and enforce in Vietnam the foreign arbitrator‟s award and to involved parties and persons with relevant interests and duties.
Head of the civil judgment enforcement agency may take security measures that are necessary for the continuing of the enforcement of foreign arbitrator‟s ward according to law on enforcement of civil judgment at the request of agencies, organizations and individuals being judgment creditors.
2. Immediately when the written notification of the foreign competent authority of the repealing or termination of the enforcement of a foreign arbitrator‟s award has been received, Vietnam‟s Court that has issued the decision to recognize and enforce in Vietnam such foreign arbitrator‟s award shall issue a decision to repeal such decision and send such decision to involved parties, persons with relevant interests and duties, and the civil judgment enforcement agency.
Immediately when the decision of the Court has been received, Head of the Civil judgment enforcement agency shall issue a decision to terminate the enforcement of the foreign arbitrator‟s award.
PART EIGHT PROCEDURES FOR SETTLEMENT OF CIVIL CASES INVOLVING FOREIGN 
ELEMENTS CHAPTER XXXVIII GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PROCEDURES FOR SETTLEMENT OF CIVIL CASES 
INVOLVING FOREIGN ELEMENTS

Section 714. Original section/article: 464. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Principles of application 1. This Part provides for jurisdiction, procedures for settlement of civil cases involving foreign elements; if a case is not provided for in this Part, other relevant provisions of this Code shall be applied.
2. A civil case involving foreign elements means a civil case falling in any of the following cases:
a) At least one party is a foreign individual/agency/organization;
b) All parties are Vietnamese citizens/agencies/organizations but the relationship is established, changed, developed or broken up in a foreign country;
c) All parties are Vietnamese citizens, agencies and organizations but the parties of such civil relationship are overseas.
3. Judicial assistance activities in civil procedure shall be conducted according to regulations of law on Judicial assistance.

Section 715. Original section/article: 465. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedural rights and obligations of foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations and branches or representatives offices of foreign agencies and organizations and international organizations or their representatives in Vietnam, States of foreign countries 1. Foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations, international organizations, representative offices of international organizations in Vietnam may initiate lawsuits to Vietnamese Courts to request the protection of their legitimate rights and interests when being infringed upon or when being in dispute.
Foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations, international organizations, representative offices of international organizations in Vietnam may initiate lawsuits to Vietnamese Courts to request the protection of their legitimate rights and interests when being infringed upon or when being in dispute.
2. When participating in civil procedures, foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations and branches or representatives offices in Vietnam of foreign agencies and foreign organizations and international organizations or their representatives in Vietnam and States of foreign countries shall have rights and obligations to conduct procedures like Vietnamese citizens, agencies and organizations.
3. The Vietnamese State may apply the principle of reciprocity to restrict relevant civil procedural rights of foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations, branches or representative offices of foreign agencies and organizations, and international organizations or their representative agencies in Vietnam which the Courts of their countries have restricted towards Vietnamese citizens, agencies and organizations, and branches and representative offices of overseas Vietnamese agencies and organizations.

Section 716. Original section/article: 466. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil-procedure legal capacity and civil-procedure act capacity of foreigners 1. Civil-procedure legal capacity and civil-procedure act capacity of a foreigner shall be determined as follows:
a) Under the law of the country of which he/she is a citizen. For a stateless foreigner, his/ her civil-procedure legal capacity and civil-procedure act capacity shall be determined under the law of the country where he/she resides. For a stateless foreigner residing in Vietnam, his /her civil- procedure legal capacity and civil- procedure act capacity shall be determined under Vietnamese law;
b) If the foreigner has different foreign citizenships, his /her civil procedure legal capacity and civil-procedure act capacity shall be determined under the law of the one of the countries of which he/she is a citizens and where he/she resides.
For a foreigner who has different citizenships and resides in a country of which he/she is not a citizen, his/her civil-procedure legal capacity and civil-procedure act capacity shall be determined under the law of the country of which he/she is a citizen for the longest time;
c) Under Vietnamese law, if he/she has different citizenships including Vietnamese citizenship, or if he/she has a card for permanent residence or temporary residence in Vietnam.
2. A foreigner may have his/her civil-procedure act capacity recognized at a Vietnamese Court if he/she has such capacity in accordance with Vietnamese law in spite of not having it in accordance with the law of the relevant foreign country.

Section 717. Original section/article: 467. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Civil-procedure legal capacity of foreign organizations, branches or representative offices in Vietnam of foreign agencies and organizations and international organizations and their representatives offices in Vietnam and of the State of foreign countries 1. Civil-procedure legal capacity of a foreign agency or organization shall be determined in accordance with the law of the country where such agency or organization is established.
Civil-procedure legal capacity of a branch or representative office of a foreign agency or organization in Vietnam shall be determined in accordance with Vietnamese law.
2. Civil-procedure legal capacity of an international organization or its representative agency shall be determined under the International treaty based on which such organization is established, the working regulation of such organization, or the International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
If the international organization declares to waive its privileges or immunities, its civil- procedures legal capacity shall be determined in accordance with Vietnamese law.

Section 718. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Protection of legitimate rights and interests involved parties being foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations, branches or representative offices in Vietnam of foreign agencies and organizations and international organizations and their representative offices in Vietnam or the State of foreign countries The involved parties being foreigners, foreign agencies and organizations, branches or representative offices of foreign agencies and organizations, and international organizations or their representative agencies in Vietnam that participate in procedures at Vietnamese Courts may themselves, or ask lawyers to, defend their lawful rights and interests in accordance with Vietnamese law.

Section 719. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Common jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts to resolve civil cases involving foreign elements 1. Vietnamese Courts shall have the jurisdiction to resolve civil cases involving foreign elements in the following cases:
a) The defendant is an individual who resides, works or lives for a long term in Vietnam;
b) The defendant is an agency or organization which is headquartered in Vietnam or the defendant is an agency or organization has a branch or a representative office in Vietnam, applicable to cases related to the operation of the branch or representative office in Vietnam of such agency/organization;
c) The defendant has properties in Vietnam;
d) The divorce cases with the plaintiffs or the defendants being Vietnamese citizens or involved parties being foreigners who reside, work or live for a long term in Vietnam;
dd) Civil cases related to civil relations which are established, changed or terminated in Vietnam, objects of which are properties in Vietnam or acts performed in Vietnam;
e) Civil cases related to civil relations which are established, changed or terminated in Vietnam but involve rights and obligations of Vietnamese agencies, organizations and individuals or agencies, organizations and individuals that are headquartered or reside in Vietnam.
2. When the jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts have been determined according to provisions of this Chapter, the Court shall base themselves of provisions of Chapter III of this Code to determine their specific jurisdiction to resolve the civil case involving foreign elements.

Section 720. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts 1. The following civil lawsuits involving foreign elements shall fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnamese courts:
a) Civil lawsuits involving rights to properties being immovables in the Vietnamese territory;
b) Divorce case between a Vietnamese citizen and a foreign citizen or a stateless person if both spouses reside, work or live permanently in Vietnam;
c) Other civil lawsuits where parties are allowed to choose Vietnamese Courts to settle according to Vietnamese law or International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory and parties agreed to choose Vietnamese Courts.
2. The following civil cases involving foreign elements shall fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnamese courts:
a) Claims without dispute arising from civil legal relationships specified in clause 1 of this Article;
b) Claims for determination of a legal events occurring in Vietnam;
c) Declaration of a Vietnamese citizen or a foreigner residing in Vietnam missing or death if such declaration is related to the establishment of their rights and obligations in Vietnam, except for cases where International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory otherwise prescribe;
d) Declaration of foreigner residing in Vietnam having limited civil act capacity or lacking legal capacity if such declaration is related to the establishment of their rights and obligations in Vietnam;
dd) Recognition of a property in Vietnam to be derelict, recognition of the right to ownership of the current manager over derelict immovables in Vietnam.

Section 721. Original section/article: 471. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Not changing the jurisdiction of Courts Any civil case involving foreign elements which has been accepted for settlement by a Vietnamese Court under this Code‟s provisions on jurisdiction must be continually settled by such Court even though during the resolution process there appear changes of nationalities, residential places or addresses of involved parties or appear new details which make such civil case falls under the jurisdiction of another Vietnamese Court or foreign court.

Section 722. Original section/article: 472. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Returning the lawsuit petitions or applications or terminating the resolution of civil cases involving foreign elements in case arbitration agreements and/or agreements on choosing foreign Courts have been concluded or in case such civil cases have been settled by foreign Courts or foreign arbitrators or other foreign competent authorities or the involved parties are eligible for legal exemption 
1. Vietnamese Courts shall return lawsuit petitions or applications or terminate the settlement of civil cases involving foreign elements if such civil cases fall in common jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts but fall in any of the following cases:
a) Involved parties were agreed to choose dispute settlement methods according to law provisions applicable to civil relationships involving foreign elements and such involved parties have chosen foreign arbitrators or Courts to settle such cases/matters.
In case where the agreements to chose foreign arbitrators or Courts are replaced by agreements on choosing Vietnamese Courts, or the agreements to choose foreign arbitrators or Courts are annulled or cannot be executed, or where the foreign arbitrators or Courts refuse to accept the petitions, thus Vietnamese Courts shall have the jurisdiction to settle;
b) The civil cases do not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts specified in

Section 723. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and fall in the exclusive jurisdiction of relevant foreign Courts;
c) The civil cases do not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of Vietnamese Courts specified in

Section 724. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and have been accepted for settlement by foreign arbitrators or Courts;
d) The civil cases are settled by judgments/decisions of the foreign Courts or by foreign arbitrators‟ awards.
If such judgments/decisions or awards are not recognized by Vietnamese Courts, Vietnamese Courts shall have jurisdiction to settle such cases;
dd) The defendants are eligible for legal exemption.
2. If the petitions are returned or the settlement of civil cases involving foreign elements specified in clause 1 of this Article is terminated, the Court fee and charge advances shall be settled according to provisions of this Code.

Section 725. Original section/article: 473. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Requests for provision of information about record and determination of addresses of involved parties living overseas 1. The petitions or written requests must state clearly full names, addresses and nationalities of involved parties living overseas enclosed with papers and documents authenticating full names, addresses and nationalities of such involved parties.
If full names, addresses and nationalties of involved parties living overseas are not fully specified, they must be completed within a time limit specified by the Courts; past such time limit, if such information are not fully provided, the Courts shall return such petitions/requests.
2. If addresses of the involved parties living overseas are not identifiable, the litigators/requesters may request Vietnamese Courts to request competent authorities of foreign countries to determine addresses of the involved parties or may request competent authorities to find the persons who are absent from their resident places or request Vietnamese Courts or foreign competent authorities to declare involved parties missing or death according to Vietnamese law or law of the foreign countries or International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
If the competent authorities of foreign countries respond to Vietnamese Courts that addresses of the involved parties living overseas are not identifiable or after 06 months from the day on with the petitions/requests are received, not any response are made, the Courts shall return such petitions/requests.

Section 726. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Methods of delivering and notifying courts’ procedural documents to overseas involved parties 1. The Court shall deliver or notify its procedural documents by any of the following methods:
a) Methods prescribed in International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory;
b/ Through the diplomatic channel, for involved parties residing in countries that are not a co- signatories with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to a International treaty;
c) By post to addresses of involved parties currently residing in foreign countries if such methods are accepted by the laws of such countries;
d) By post to overseas representative missions of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for being delivered to the involved parties being overseas Vietnamese citizens;
dd/ Through its representative office or branch in Vietnam in accordance with this provisions of this Code, applicable to foreign agencies or organizations having representative offices or branches in Vietnam;
e) By post to legal representatives or proxy representatives in Vietnam of involved parties living overseas.
2. Methods of delivery specified at Points a and b Clause 1 of this Article must comply with the law on Judicial assistance.
3. If the modes of delivery specified in Clause 1 of this Article are unsuccessfully applied, the Court shall post up the procedural document at the head office of the relevant overseas representative mission of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the Court currently processing the case, or the last place of residence of the involved party in Vietnam for 01 month and on the e- portal of the Court (if any) and the e-portal of the overseas representative mission of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. In necessary cases, the Court may broadcast such on the central radio or television channels specialized for foreigners three times for 03 consecutive days.

Section 727. Original section/article: 475. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Collection of evidences from foreign countries The Courts shall collect evidences in any of the following methods:
1. Those specified in points a and b clause 1

Section 728. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. Request by post involved parties being Vietnamese citizens residing overseas to send papers, materials and evidences to the Vietnamese Court.

Section 729. Original section/article: 476. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Notification of acceptance of cases, date for opening meetings or Court sessions 1. The Court shall send a notice of acceptance of the case to overseas involved parties, clearly stating the time and venue for holding the meeting for checking the handover of, access to, and disclosure of evidences and mediation (hereinafter referred to as the meeting), resumption of the meeting, and opening or resumption of the Court session.
2. The time limit for opening a Court session or a meeting for mediating shall be determined as follows:
a) A meeting for mediating shall be opened not earlier than 06 months and not later than 08 months after the issuance of a written notice of acceptance of the case. The date of resumption of
a mediation meeting (if any) shall be fixed within 01 month after the date of opening such meeting;
b) A Court session shall be opened not earlier than 09 months and not later than 12 months after the issuance of a written notice of acceptance of the case. The date of resumption of a Court session (if any) shall be fixed within 01 month after the date of opening such Court session, except for cases specified in Clause 4

Section 730. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
3. The Court shall send a notice of acceptance of the civil matter to overseas involved parties, clearly stating the time and venue for opening or resuming the meeting for settling a civil matter.
The meeting shall be opened not earlier than 06 months and not later than 08 months after the issuance of a written notice of acceptance of the civil matter. The date of resumption of a meeting for settling civil matter (if any) shall be fixed within 01 month after the date of opening the initial meeting.

Section 731. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of results of delivery of Court’s procedural documents to overseas involved parties and results of requesting of foreign competent authorities to collect evidences Upon receiving results of delivery of the court‟s procedural document and results of collection of evidences in a foreign country, the court, on the case-by-case basis, shall:
1. Not hold a mediation meeting when it has received the delivery results by one of the methods specified in Clause 1

Section 732. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and the involved parties have provided sufficient testimonies, materials and evidences, and the civil lawsuit falls into the case where no mediation can be held prescribed in

Section 733. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
2. Postpone the mediation meeting if it has received the notice of delivery completion but until the date of holding the m, it receives no testimonies, documents or evidences from the involved parties that do not ask for permitted absence from the mediation meeting. In case overseas involved parties are still absent on the day the mediation meeting is resumed, the Court shall consider it impossible for conducting the mediation;
3. Postpone the Court session in the following cases:
a) Overseas involved parties request in writing the postponement of the first Court session;
b) Overseas involved parties are absent from the first Court session, unless they make a written petition for trial to be conducted in their absence;
4. Postpone the Court session, if it receives no notice of delivery results or testimonies, materials or evidences of overseas involved parties and, on the date of opening the Court session, these involved parties are still absent and make no written request for trial to be conducted in their absence. Immediately after the postponement of the Court session, the Court shall request in writing the Ministry of Justice or overseas representative mission of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to notify the delivery of the court‟s procedural document to the involved parties in case the Court makes the delivery via this mission by one of the methods prescribed in Points a, b and d Clause 1

Section 734. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
Within 01 month after receiving the court‟s request, the overseas representative mission of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam shall notify the Court of the result of delivery of the procedural document to the overseas involved parties.
Within 10 days after receiving the court‟s request, the Ministry of Justice shall request in writing the competent foreign authority to give a reply on the result of request for judicial assistance.
Within 5 working days after receiving the reply from the competent foreign authority, the Ministry of Justice shall give a reply to the court.
Past the 3-month time limit from the date of transferring the court‟s request to the competent foreign agency, if receiving no reply, the Ministry of Justice shall notify such to the Court for use as a ground for settlement of the case;
5. Conduct trial in the absence of overseas involved parties in the following cases:
a) It has received the result of delivery of the procedural document to the involved parties by one of the methods prescribed in Clause 1

Section 735. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code and the involved parties have provided sufficient testimonies, documents or evidences and requested the Court to conduct trial in their absence;
b) It has taken measures mentioned in Clause 3

Section 736. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
c) It receives no notice from the competent authority mentioned in Clause 4 of this Article regarding the delivery result;
6. If the Court receives a written notification of that the delivery cannot be completed because name and address of the involved party is inaccurate or the involved party has moved to another address that is unknown to the Court, then the Court shall:
a) Request the plaintiff and relatives in Vietnam of overseas involved party (if any) to provide it with correct or new address of the overseas involved party. Continue the delivery of the notice of acceptance to overseas involved party according to the address provided by the plaintiff or the relatives in Vietnam of the overseas involved party;
b) Make a decision to terminate the resolution of the case, in case the plaintiff or the relative in Vietnam of the involved party fails to or refuse to provide correct or new address of the overseas involved party or the overseas party does not have a relative in Vietnam. Concurrently, the Court shall explain to the litigator the right to request the Court to issue notice of finding an involved party absent from his/her residence or request the Court to declare an involved party missing or death;
c) If the plaintiff is a Vietnamese citizen who applies for divorcing a foreigner living overseas but fails to provide accurately such foreigner‟s full name or new address at the request of the Court though the plaintiff and/or his/her relatives or Vietnamese or foreign competent authorities have conducted verification of news and/or address of such foreigner, then the plaintiff shall request the Court to post the notification on its e-portal (if any), e-portal of the consular offices of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in foreign countries. If it is deemed necessary, at the request of the plaintiff, the Court may make notification via central radio or television channels specialized for foreigners three times for 03 consecutive days.
In such case, the Court is not required to re-deliver the procedural documents to overseas involved party. Past the 1-month time limit from the day on which the notification is posted, the Court shall conduct the trial in the absence of the involved party.

Section 737. Original section/article: 478. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recognition of papers and materials sent by foreign agencies, organizations, or individuals to Vietnamese Courts 
1. Vietnamese Courts shall recognize papers and documents made, issued or certified by competent foreign agencies or organizations in the following cases:
a) Papers, materials and notarized or certified Vietnamese translations have been legalized by consular offices;
b) Papers and documents are exempt from consular legalization in accordance with Vietnamese law or International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory.
2. Vietnamese Courts shall recognize papers and materials made by overseas individuals in the following cases:
a) Foreign-language papers and documents already translated into Vietnamese are lawfully notarized or certified in accordance with the Vietnamese law;
b) Papers and documents made in a foreign country are notarized or certified in accordance with the law of that country and have been legalized by consular offices;
c) Papers and documents made in Vietnamese by overseas Vietnamese citizens with their signatures certified in accordance with Vietnamese law.

Section 738. Original section/article: 479. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for appealing against Court judgments or decisions on trial of civil lawsuits involving foreign elements 1. Involved parties present in Vietnam may appeal against a Court judgment or decision within the time limit specified in

Section 739. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code.
2. For overseas involved parties who are absent from the Court session, the time limit for them to appeal against a Court judgment or decision is 01 month after such judgment or decision is duly delivered or posted up in accordance with law.
3. In case the Court conducts trial in the absence of overseas involved parties under Point b, Clause 5,

Section 740. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the time limit for filing an appeal is 12 months since the judgment is pronounced.

Section 741. Original section/article: 480. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Delivery or notification of procedural documents of appellate Courts to overseas involved parties and handling of delivery or notification results Appellate Courts shall deliver or notify procedural documents to overseas involved parties and handle delivery or notification results in accordance with Articles 474, 476 and 477 of this Code.

Section 742. Original section/article: 481. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Determination and provision of foreign law for the Court to apply in the settlement of civil cases involving foreign elements If the Vietnamese Court apply a foreign law to settle a civil case involving foreign element according to provisions of Vietnamese law and/or of an International treaty to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory, the responsibility for determining and providing foreign shall be performed as follows:
1. If the involved party of a civil case is allowed to choose a foreign law to be applied, he/she shall provide the foreign law he/she has chosen for the Court being in charge of such case. The involved party shall be responsible for the accuracy and legitimacy of the foreign law he/she provides for the Court.
If involved parties fail to agreed with each other about the foreign law to be chosen or in necessary cases, the Court shall request the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
consular offices of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in foreign countries or request the diplomatic missions of foreign countries in Vietnam (via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) to provide the foreign laws;
2. If Vietnamese law and/or International treaties to which the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a signatory provide for that foreign laws shall be applied, the involved parties may provide foreign laws for the Court or the Court shall request the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or consular offices of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in foreign countries to provide it with foreign laws;
3. The Court may request agencies, organizations and individuals professional in foreign laws to provide it with information about foreign laws;
4. Past the 06-month time limit from the date of request for provision of foreign laws as provided for in this Article, if there is no response, the Court shall apply Vietnamese law to settle the civil case.
PART NINE ENFORCING CIVIL JUDGMENTS/DECISIONS OF COURTS 
Chapter XXXIX ENFORCING CIVIL JUDGMENTS/DECISIONS OF COURTS

Section 743. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
To be-enforced judgments/decisions of courts 1. The to be-enforced civil judgments/decisions of Courts are those that already took effect, including:
a) Judgments/decisions or parts of judgments/decisions of the first-instance courts, which are not appealed against according to the appellate procedures;
b) Judgments/decisions of appellate Courts;
c) Cassation/reopening decisions of courts; decisions of Councils of Judges of the Supreme People‟s Court prescribed in

Section 744. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
d) Civil judgments/decisions of foreign courts, foreign arbitral award, which have been recognized and permitted for enforcement in Vietnam.
2. The following judgments/decisions of first-instance Courts shall be immediately enforced though they may be appealed against or complained/recommended about:
a) Judgments/decisions on alimonies, remuneration, reinstatement of employees, wages, severance pays, compensation for loss of capacity for work, redundancy pays, social insurance, unemployment insurance, health insurance or compensations for loss of lives, health or mental damage suffered by citizens; decisions on lawfulness of labor strikes;
b) Decisions on application of provisional emergency measures.

Section 745. Original section/article: 483. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Recording and explanation about the right to request the enforcement of civil judgment 1. If the judgment/decision of the Court exists a decision to be enforced according to regulations in

Section 746. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, in the conclusion of such judgment/decision, the right to request the
enforcement of the judgment, the obligation to enforce the judgment and the prescriptive periods of enforcement shall be clearly stated.
2. When issuing a judgment/decision, the Court shall clearly explain the involved parties about their right to request the judgment enforcement, judgment enforcement obligation and prescriptive periods for requesting for the enforcement of the judgment according to provisions of the Law on enforcement of civil judgments.

Section 747. Original section/article: 484. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Issuance of judgments/ decisions of Courts When a judgment/decision of the Court fails in cases subject to being enforced according to regulations in

Section 748. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, the Court which has issued such judgment/decision shall issue the judgment creditors and judgment debtors such judgment/decision with the words “Dể thi hành” (to be enforced) written on it.

Section 749. Original section/article: 485. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for forwarding of judgments/decisions 1. The Court that has issued the judgment/decision specified in clause 1

Section 750. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must forward such judgment/decision to competent civil-judgment-executing bodies within 01 month from the day on which such judgment/decision takes legal effect, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
2. The Court that has issued the judgment/decision specified in point a clause 2

Section 751. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code must forward such judgment/decision to competent civil-judgment-executing bodies within 15 days from the day on which such judgment/decision takes legal effect.
3. The Court that has made the decision to apply provisional emergency measures or decision on the legitimacy of a strike must forward such decision to competent civil-judgment-executing bodies immediately when such decision has been issued.
4. If the competent agencies have distrained upon the properties, impounded the properties, confiscated the exhibits or other documents related to the enforcement of the judgments, when forwarding the judgments/decisions to the civil-judgment-executing bodies, the Court must enclose with them copies of minutes of the distrainment, impoundment or confiscation of exhibits and other relevant documents.

Section 752. Original section/article: 486. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Explanation for and modification of judgments/ decisions of Courts 1. Judgment creditors, judgment debtors, persons with relevant interests and duties to the enforcement of the judgment/decisions of the Court and judgment-executing bodies shall be entitled to request in writing the Court issuing such judgments/decisions to explain and modify unclear information in such judgments/decisions to enforce them.
2. The Judges that have made the decisions or the Judges being the presiding Judges of the Court sessions shall be in charge of explaining and modifying unclear information in the judgments/decisions of the Courts. If such Judges are no longer the Judges of the Courts, the Chief Justices of such Courts shall take their charge.
3. The explanation of judgments/decisions of the Courts shall base on the minutes of the Court session, of the meeting or the deliberation minutes. The modification of a judgment/decision of a Court shall comply with regulations in

Section 753. Original section/article: 487. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Resolution of requests and recommendations about judgments/ decisions of Courts 
If a civil-judgment enforcement agency file a recommendation about the re-consideration of a judgment/decision of the Court according to cassation or reopening procedures, the competent Court shall make response within 03 months from the day on which the recommendation is received; if the case is too complicated, such time limit shall be 04 months from the day on which the recommendation is received.

Section 754. Original section/article: 488. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Jurisdiction, procedures for consideration for exemption or reduction of judgment enforcement obligation regarding the amounts payable to the State budget by the Court 1. Jurisdiction to consider the exemption or reduction of judgment enforcement obligation regarding the amounts payable to the State budget by the Court shall be determined as follows:
a) People‟s Courts of districts where the civil-judgment-executing bodies which are carrying out the enforcement of the judgment are headquartered shall be entitled to consider the applications for exemption or reduction of judgment enforcement obligation regarding the amounts payable to the State budget;
b) People‟s Courts of provinces shall be entitled to consider according to appellate procedures Court decisions on the exemption or reduction of judgment enforcement obligation regarding the amounts payable to the State budget which are appealed against by the procuracies;
c) Collegial People‟s Courts shall be entitled to consider according to re-opening procedures Court decisions on exemption or reduction of legally effective judgment obligation which are appealed against within their jurisdiction.
2. Order and procedures for consideration for exemption or reduction of judgment enforcement obligation regarding the amounts payable to the State budget shall be conformable to provisions of the Law on civil judgment enforcement.
PART TEN HANDLING ACTS OF OBSTRUCTING CIVIL PROCEEDINGS; COMPLAINTS AND 
DENUNCIATIONS IN CIVIL PROCEDURES Chapter XL 
HANDLING ACTS OF OBSTRUCTING CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

Section 755. Original section/article: 489. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling acts of obstructing the verification and collection of evidences by proceeding officers Those who commit one of the following acts shall, depending on the nature and severity of the violations, be disciplined, be imposed administrative penalties or face criminal prosecution as prescribed in law:
1. Forging or destroying important exhibits, thus obstructing the resolution of cases by courts;
2. Refusing to provide or provide untruthful testimonies or providing false materials when acting as witnesses;
3. Refusing to produce results of expertise of refusing to provide information without good and sufficient reason or produce untruthful expertise results;
4. Intentionally giving untruthful interpretation;
5. Failing to assign a person to join the Price Assessment Council at the request of the Court without a plausible reason; failing to perform the duties of the Price Assessment Council without a plausible reason;
6. Obstructing a procedure-conducting person to make on-site inspection and appraisal, conduct assessment and/or expertise or verify or collect other evidences in accordance with this Code;
7. Deceiving, bribing, threatening, forcing or using force to prevent a witness from giving testimonies, or compelling others to deceitfully act as a witness;
8. Deceiving, bribing, threatening, forcing, or using force to prevent an expert witness from performing his/her duty, or compelling him/her to make an untruthful conclusion;
9. Deceiving, bribing, threatening, forcing, or using force to prevent an interpreter from performing his/her duty or compelling him/her to give untruthful, biased or wrong interpretation.

Section 756. Original section/article: 490. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling measures applicable to witnesses who are intentionally not present under courts’ subpoenas 1. In cases where witnesses or the interpreters have been duly summoned by Courts but have deliberately declined to go to Courts or to be present in Court sessions or meeting without plausible reasons and their absence caused obstacles to the collection and/or verification of evidences or the adjudication of cases, they shall face administrative sanction according to law provisions.
2. In cases specified in clause 1 of this Article, the Courts shall be entitled to issue decisions to escort the witness to the Court sessions or meetings, unless the witnesses are minors. Decisions on escorting witnesses must clearly state the time and places of their issuance; the full names and positions of the persons issuing the decisions; the full names, dates of birth and residence places of the witnesses, the time and places for the witnesses to be present.
3. The public security offices having the task to enforce the Court decisions shall be in charge of escorting witnesses. Executors of such decisions must read out and explain them to the to be- escorted persons and make records on the escort.

Section 757. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Handling of violations against the internal rules of Court sessions 1. Persons committing violations against the internal rules of Court sessions specified in

Section 758. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code shall, depending on nature and severity of the violations, face administrative penalties imposed by the presiding Judges according to law provisions.
2. The presiding Judges shall be entitled to make decisions to compel the violators specified in clause 1 of this Article to leave the courtroom. Public security offices having the task to protect Court sessions or persons having the task to protect the order of the Court sessions shall enforce the presiding Judges‟ decisions on forcible departures from Court rooms or admistrative custody against persons who cause disturbance in Court sessions.
3. In cases where persons violate the internal rules of Court sessions to such an extent that they must be liable to criminal prosecution, the Courts shall be entitled to institute criminal cases according to regulations on criminal procedures.
4. Provisions of this Article shall be also applicable to persons who commit violations in the Court‟s meetings.

Section 759. Original section/article: 492. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Actions against acts offending or injuring the solemn and/or prestige of the Court, honor, dignity or health of proceeding officers or other persons carrying out duties at the request of the Court Any person performing an act offending or injuring the solemn and/or prestige of the Court, honor, dignity or health of proceeding officers or other persons carrying out duties at the request of the Court shall, depending on nature and severity of the violations, be imposed administrative penalties or be liable to criminal prosecution according to law provisions.

Section 760. Original section/article: 493. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Actions against the issuance, sending, receiving, delivery or notice of procedural documents of the Court Any person shall, depending on nature and severity of the violations, be imposed disciplinary penalties, administrative penalties or liable to criminal prosecution according to law provisions if he/she performs any of the following acts:
1. Fail to perform the issuance, sending, delivery or notice of procedural documents of the Court at the request of the Court without plausible reasons;
2. Destroy procedural documents of the Court that the Court assigned them to issue, deliver or notice;
3. Forge the results of the deliver or notice of procedural documents of the Court that are assigned;
4. Preclude the issuance, sending, Receiving, delivery or notice of procedural documents of the Court.

Section 761. Original section/article: 494. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Actions against acts preventing representatives of agencies, organizations or individuals from participating in procedures as requested by Courts Those who threaten, assault, or take advantage of others‟ dependence to prevent representatives of agencies, organizations or individuals from attending Court sessions or meetings as summoned by the Courts shall, depending on the nature and severity of their violations, be administratively sanctioned or be liable to criminal prosecution according to law provisions.

Section 762. Original section/article: 495. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Actions against acts of failing to executive Court decisions on provisions of documents and evidences to the Court or acts of reporting untruthful information in order to obstruct Court’s settlement of cases 1. Agencies, organizations or individuals that fail to execute the Court decision on provision of documents and evidences they are currently managing or keeping shall be administratively sanctioned in accordance with law.
2. Those who report untruthful information in order to obstruct the Court‟s settlement of the case shall, depending on the nature and severity of their violations, be administratively sanctioned, administratively sanctioned or be liable to criminal prosecution in accordance with law.

Section 763. Original section/article: 496. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Actions against acts interfering in the settlement of civil cases Those who use their influence to exert impacts in any form on the Judge or another member of the Trial Panel in order to make the settlement of the case biased or unlawful shall, depending on the nature and severity of their violations, be imposed disciplinary measures, be administratively sanctioned or be liable to criminal prosecution in accordance with law.

Section 764. Original section/article: 497. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Responsibilities of the procuracies in cases where the Courts institute criminal cases 1. In cases where the Courts institute criminal cases as stipulated in Clauses 3 and 4

Section 765. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code, within 15 days from the day on which the institution decisions are issued, the Courts shall forward to the competent procuracies the institution decisions and materials and evidences substantiating the criminal acts.
2. The procuracies shall be responsible for considering and settling according to provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.

Section 766. Original section/article: 498. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forms of penalty, competence, order and procedures for imposing penalties Forms of penalty, competence, order and procedures for imposing administrative penalties on acts that obstruct civil procedure activities shall comply with provisions of the Law on Actions against administrative violations and relevant law provisions.
Chapter XLI COMPLAINTS AND DENUNCIATIONS IN CIVIL PROCEDURES

Section 767. Original section/article: 499. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Decisions and acts in civil procedures which may be complained about 1. Agencies, organizations or individuals shall be entitled to complain about procedural decisions or acts of civil proceeding authorities/persons when there are grounds for presuming that such decisions or acts are illegal or infringe upon their legitimate rights and interests.
2. For first-instance, appellate, cassation or reopening judgments/decisions of Courts or other procedural decisions issued by civil proceeding officers, if being appealed against, complained about or petitioned, they shall be settled not according to the provisions of this Chapter but according to the provisions of corresponding chapters of this Code.

Section 768. Original section/article: 500. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of complainants 1. Complainants shall have the following rights:
a) To lodge complaints by themselves or through their lawful representatives;
b) To lodge their complaints at any stage of the resolution of the cases;
c) To withdraw their complaints at any stage of the resolution of the cases;
d) To receive written replies on the acceptance of their complaints; to receive the complaint- resolving decisions;
dd) To have their legitimate rights or interests restored; to receive damages as provided for by law.
2. Complainants shall have the following obligations:
a) To lodge their complaints to the right persons who are competent to settle them;
b) To give truthful presentations of the cases, to supply information and documents to persons handling the complaints; to take responsibility before law for the contents of their presentations and the supply of such information and documents;
c) Not to abuse the right to complain to obstruct the procedural activities of the courts;
d) To abide by decisions and acts of presiding officers that they are complaining about during the complaining period;
dd) To strictly abide by the complaint-resolving decisions which have taken legal effect.

Section 769. Original section/article: 501. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the complained persons 1. The complained persons shall have the following rights:
a) To acquire knowledge about grounds for complaint of the complainants; to produce evidences of the legality of their procedural decisions or acts which are being complained about;
b) To receive decisions on the resolution of the complaints about their own procedural decisions or acts.
2. The complained persons shall have the following obligations:
a) To explain their procedural decisions or acts being complained about; to provide relevant information or documents when so requested by competent agencies, organizations or individuals;
b) To strictly abide by the decisions on the resolution of the complaints which have taken legal effect;
c) To compensate for damage, to reimburse or address the consequences caused by their illegal procedural decisions or acts as provided for by law.

Section 770. Original section/article: 502. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Statute of limitations for lodging complaints The time limit specified in statute of limitation for lodging a complaint is 15 days as from the date the complainant receives or knows about the procedural decision/act which he/she deems illegal.
In cases where complainants cannot exercise their right to lodge their complaints within the time limit prescribed in this Article because of force majeure events or objective obstacles, the duration in which the force majeure events or objective obstacles exist shall not be counted into the statute of limitations for complaint.

Section 771. Original section/article: 503. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Forms of complaint Complaint petitions must be made in writing. A written complaint petition must clearly state the date; full name and address of the complainant; complaint contents and reasons for the complaint, request of the complainant, signature or fingerprints of the complainant.

Section 772. Original section/article: 504. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence resolution of complaints against decisions/acts of proceeding officers 1. Complaints against decisions/acts of proceeding officers being Judges, Deputy-Chief Justices, Ombudspersons, Court clerks or People‟s Jurors shall be settled by the competent Chief Justices of Courts being in charge of such civil cases.
Complaints against procedural decisions/acts of Chief Justices of Courts shall be settled by the competent Chief Justices of the immediately superior courts.
2. Complaints against decisions/acts of proceeding officers being procurators, inspectors, deputy chairpersons of procuracies shall be settled by the chairpersons of the procuracies.
Complaints against procedural decisions/acts of chairpersons of procuracies shall be settled by competent chairpersons of the immediately superior procuracies.
3. Complaints against the first complaint-resolving decisions of the Chief Justices or the Chairpersons of procuracies provided for in clauses 1 and 2 of this Article shall be settled by the Chief Justices/Chairpersons of the immediately superior courts/procuracies.

Section 773. Original section/article: 505. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Time limit for resolution of complaints Time limit for resolution of first complaints shall be 15 days from the day on which the courts/procuracies received the complaint petitions. If necessary, for complicated cases and matters, time limit for resolution of complaints can be extended by not exceeding 15 days calculated from the day on which the time limit for resolution of complaints expires.

Section 774. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Contents of decisions on first complaint resolution 1. Persons who resolve complaints for the first time must issue written decisions on resolution of the complaints. A decision on resolution of a complaint shall include the following information:
a) Date of issuing the decision;
b) Name and address of the complainant and the complained person;
c) Complained matters;
d) Result of the verification of the complained matters;
dd) Legal grounds for resolution of the complaint;
e) Decision on first complaint resolution.
2. First complaint-resolving decisions must be sent to the complainants and relevant individuals, agencies and organizations. If the decisions are issued by the Chief Justices of the courts, they must be sent to procuracies of the same levels.

Section 775. Original section/article: 507. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for second complaint resolution 1. Within 05 working days from the day on which the first complaint-resolving decisions are received, if the complainants disagree with such decisions, they may file complaints with competent persons for second complaint resolution.
2. The complaint petitions must be enclosed with copies of first complaint-resolving decisions and accompanying materials.
A written complaint petition must clearly state the date; full name and address of the complainant; complaint contents and reasons for the complaint; signature or fingerprints of the complainant.
3. A second complaint-resolving decision must include the following information:
a) Information specified in points a, b, c, d and dd clause 1

Section 776. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
b) Result of the first complaint resolution;
c) Conclusions about specific matters in the complaint petition and the resolution of the second complaint-resolving persons.
4. Second complaint-resolving decisions must be sent to the complainants and relevant individuals, agencies and organizations. If the decisions are issued by the Chief Justices of the courts, they must be sent to procuracies of the same levels.
5. Second complaint-resolving decisions shall be effective.

Section 777. Original section/article: 508. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Resolution of complaints against expertise activities in civil procedures The resolution of complaints against expertise activities in civil procedures shall comply with law regulations on judicial expertise and relevant law provisions.

Section 778. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Persons who have right to denounce Individuals are entitled to denounce to competent agencies, organizations or individuals illegal acts of competent proceeding officers which cause or threaten to cause damage to the State‟s interests or legitimate rights and interests of agencies, organizations or individuals.

Section 779. Original section/article: 510. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of denouncers 1. Denouncers shall have the following rights:
a) To file their written denunciations or directly present denunciations to competent agencies, organizations or individuals;
b) To request that their full names, addresses and autographs be kept secret;
c) To request that the results of resolution of their denunciations be notified to them;
d) To request that competent agencies, organizations and individuals protect them when they are threatened, bullied or revenged.
2. Denouncers shall have the following obligations:
a) To honestly present the contents of their denunciations;
b) To clearly state their full names and addresses;
c) To take responsibility before law for untruthful denunciations.

Section 780. Original section/article: 511. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Rights and obligations of the denounced persons 1. Denounced persons shall have the following rights:
a) To be notified of the denunciation contents;
b) To produce evidences to prove that the denunciation contents are untrue;
c) To have their legitimate rights and interests that have been infringed upon restored; to have their honor restored; and to enjoy compensation for the damage caused by false denunciations;
d) To request competent agencies, organizations or individuals to handle persons who gave untruthful denunciations.
2. Denounced persons shall have the following obligations:
a) To explain their denounced acts; to provide relevant information and documents when so requested by competent agencies, organizations or individuals;
b) To strictly abide by the handling decisions of competent agencies, organizations or individuals;
c) To pay damages, reimburse or address consequences caused by their illegal civil procedural acts according to law provisions.

Section 781. Original section/article: 512. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence and time limit for resolution of denunciations 1. Denunciations of illegal acts of persons competent to conduct procedures of any competent agencies shall be settled by the heads of such agencies.
In cases where the denounced persons are courts‟ Chief Justices, deputy-Chief Justices, chairpersons or deputy-chairpersons of the procuracies, the Chief Justices of the immediately superior Courts or the chairpersons of the immediately superior procuracies shall have responsibility to settle the cases.
The time limit for resolution of a denunciation shall not exceed 02 months as from the date on which the denunciation is accepted; for complicated cases, the time limit for denunciation resolution may be longer but shall not exceed 03 months.
2. Denunciations of illegal acts which show criminal signs shall be settled according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.

Section 782. Original section/article: 513. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Procedures for denunciation resolution The procedures for resolution of denunciations shall comply with law regulations on denunciation.

Section 783. Original section/article: 514. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Responsibilities of persons competent to settle complaints/denunciations 1. Competent agencies, organizations or individuals shall, within the scope of their tasks and powers, have the responsibility to receive and promptly and properly settle complaints or denunciations; to strictly handle violators; to apply necessary measures to prevent possible damage or losses; to ensure strict execution of settling decisions and have to take legal responsibility for their decisions.
2. Those who are competent to settle complaints or denunciations but fail to settle them, show irresponsibility in settling them or settle them illegally shall, depending on the nature and severity of the violations, be disciplined or examined for penal liability; if causing damage, they must pay compensations therefor according to law provisions.

Section 784. Original section/article: 515. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Inspection and supervision of law observation in resolution of complaints and denunciations in civil procedures The people‟s procuracies shall inspect and supervise the law observance in the resolution of complaints and denunciations in civil procedures according to law provisions. The procuracies are entitled to request or recommend the Courts of the same and lower levels, responsible agencies, organizations and individuals to ensure that the settlement of complaints/denunciations is well grounded and lawful.
Chapter XLII IMPLEMENTARY CLAUSE

Section 785. Original section/article: 516. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Amendment to a number of articles of the Labor Code No. 10/2012/QH13 1.

Section 786. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
shall be amended as follows:
“

Section 787. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Competence to declare a labor contract to be invalid 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
People‟s Courts shall be entitled to declare labor contracts to be invalid.”
2. Articles 223, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232 and 234

Section 788. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chapter XIV of the Labor Code No. 10/2012/QH13 shall be annulled.

Section 789. Original section/article: 517. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Effect 1. This Code takes effect from July 01st, 2016, except for the following provisions related to provisions of the Civil Code No. 91/2015/QH13 that take effect from January 01st, 2017:
a) Provisions related to that the Courts must not refuse to resolve civil cases for the reasons that there are no applicable law provisions prescribed in clause 2

Section 790. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, Articles 43, 44 and 45 of this Code;
b) Provisions pertaining to persons with limited cognition or behavior control;
c) Provisions pertaining to the application of statute of limitations provided for in clause 2

Section 791. Original section/article: 184. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
and point e clause 1

Section 792. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
of this Code;
d) Provisions pertaining to legal entities being representatives or guardians.
2. The Civil Procedure Code No. 24/2004/QH11 that has been amended according to the Law No. 65/2011/QH12 shall expire since this Code comes into effect, except for provisions of

Section 793. Original section/article: 159. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
and point h clause 1

Section 794. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
that shall be effective until the end of December 31st, 2016.
This Code was passed on November 25 th 
, 2015 by the XII th 
National Assembly of the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam at its 10 th 
Session. 
CHAIRPERSON OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY 
Nguyen Sinh Hung 
Unofficial translated by LPVN 
Open PDF 
open_in_new 
Bộ Luật tố Tụng Dân Sự số 92/2015/QH13 ngày 25/11/2015 
﻿ Bộ Luậttố Tụng Dân Sự (Luật số: 92/2015/QH13) 
QUỐC HỘI -------- 
CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM Độc lập - Tự do - Hạnh phúc 
--------------- Luật số: 92/2015/QH13 Hà Nội, ngày 25 tháng 11 năm 2015 
BỘ LUẬT TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ 
Căn cứ Hiến pháp nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam; Quốc hội ban hành Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự. 
Phần thứ nhất NHỮNG QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG 
Chương I NHIỆM VỤ VÀ HIỆU LỰC CỦA BỘ LUẬT TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ

Section 795. Original section/article: 1. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi điều chỉnh và nhiệm vụ của Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự quy định những nguyên tắc cơ bản trong tố tụng dân sự; trình tự, thủ tục khởi kiện để Tòa án nhân dân (sau đây gọi là Tòa án) giải quyết các vụ án về tranh chấp dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động (sau đây gọi chung là vụ án dân sự) và trình tự, thủ tục yêu cầu để Tòa án giải quyết các việc về yêu cầu dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động (sau đây gọi chung là việc dân sự); trình tự, thủ tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự, việc dân sự (sau đây gọi chung là vụ việc dân sự) tại Tòa án; thủ tục công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài; thi hành án dân sự; nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn và trách nhiệm của cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng; quyền và nghĩa vụ của người tham gia tố tụng, của cá nhân, của cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân, tổ chức kinh tế, tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp (sau đây gọi chung là cơ quan, tổ chức) có liên quan nhằm bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự được nhanh chóng, chính xác, công minh và đúng pháp luật.
Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự góp phần bảo vệ công lý, bảo vệ quyền con người, quyền công dân, bảo vệ chế độ xã hội chủ nghĩa, bảo vệ lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân; giáo dục mọi người nghiêm chỉnh chấp hành pháp luật.

Section 796. Original section/article: 2. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đối tượng áp dụng và hiệu lực của Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự 1. Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự được áp dụng đối với mọi hoạt động tố tụng dân sự trên lãnh thổ nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam, bao gồm đất liền, hải đảo, vùng biển và vùng trời.
2. Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự được áp dụng đối với mọi hoạt động tố tụng dân sự do cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam tiến hành ở nước ngoài.
3. Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự được áp dụng đối với việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài; trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên có quy định khác thì áp dụng quy định của điều ước quốc tế đó.
4. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài thuộc đối tượng được hưởng quyền ưu đãi, miễn trừ ngoại giao hoặc quyền ưu đãi, miễn trừ lãnh sự theo pháp luật Việt Nam, theo điều ước quốc tế
mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên thì vụ việc dân sự có liên quan đến cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó được giải quyết bằng con đường ngoại giao.
Chương II NHỮNG NGUYÊN TẮC CƠ BẢN

Section 797. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tuân thủ pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự Mọi hoạt động tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng, của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan phải tuân theo các quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 798. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân do Bộ luật này quy định có quyền khởi kiện vụ án dân sự, yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự tại Tòa án có thẩm quyền để yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ công lý, bảo vệ quyền con người, quyền công dân, bảo vệ lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình hoặc của người khác.
2. Tòa án không được từ chối giải quyết vụ việc dân sự vì lý do chưa có điều luật để áp dụng.
Vụ việc dân sự chưa có điều luật để áp dụng là vụ việc dân sự thuộc phạm vi điều chỉnh của pháp luật dân sự nhưng tại thời điểm vụ việc dân sự đó phát sinh và cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết chưa có điều luật để áp dụng.
Việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự quy định tại khoản này được thực hiện theo các nguyên tắc do Bộ luật dân sự và Bộ luật này quy định.

Section 799. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền quyết định và tự định đoạt của đương sự 1. Đương sự có quyền quyết định việc khởi kiện, yêu cầu Tòa án có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ việc dân sự. Tòa án chỉ thụ lý giải quyết vụ việc dân sự khi có đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu của đương sự và chỉ giải quyết trong phạm vi đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu đó.
2. Trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, đương sự có quyền chấm dứt, thay đổi yêu cầu của mình hoặc thỏa thuận với nhau một cách tự nguyện, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật và không trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 800. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cung cấp chứng cứ và chứng minh trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Đương sự có quyền và nghĩa vụ chủ động thu thập, giao nộp chứng cứ cho Tòa án và chứng minh cho yêu cầu của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện, yêu cầu để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác có quyền và nghĩa vụ thu thập, cung cấp chứng cứ, chứng minh như đương sự.
2. Tòa án có trách nhiệm hỗ trợ đương sự trong việc thu thập chứng cứ và chỉ tiến hành thu thập, xác minh chứng cứ trong những trường hợp do Bộ luật này quy định.

Section 801. Original section/article: 7. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có trách nhiệm cung cấp đầy đủ và đúng thời hạn cho đương sự, Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân (sau đây gọi là Viện kiểm sát) tài liệu, chứng cứ mà mình đang lưu giữ, quản lý khi có yêu cầu của đương sự, Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát theo quy định của Bộ luật này và phải chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về việc
cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ đó; trường hợp không cung cấp được thì phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho đương sự, Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát.

Section 802. Original section/article: 8. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bình đẳng về quyền và nghĩa vụ trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Trong tố tụng dân sự mọi người đều bình đẳng trước pháp luật, không phân biệt dân tộc, giới tính, tín ngưỡng, tôn giáo, thành phần xã hội, trình độ văn hóa, nghề nghiệp, địa vị xã hội.
Mọi cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đều bình đẳng trong việc thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ tố tụng trước Tòa án.
2. Tòa án có trách nhiệm bảo đảm nguyên tắc bình đẳng trong việc thực hiện quyền và nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân trong tố tụng dân sự.

Section 803. Original section/article: 9. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm quyền bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự 1. Đương sự có quyền tự bảo vệ hoặc nhờ luật sư hay người khác có đủ điều kiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình.
2. Tòa án có trách nhiệm bảo đảm cho đương sự thực hiện quyền bảo vệ của họ.
3. Nhà nước có trách nhiệm bảo đảm trợ giúp pháp lý cho các đối tượng theo quy định của pháp luật để họ thực hiện quyền bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp trước Tòa án.
4. Không ai được hạn chế quyền bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự trong tố tụng dân sự.

Section 804. Original section/article: 10. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hòa giải trong tố tụng dân sự Tòa án có trách nhiệm tiến hành hòa giải và tạo điều kiện thuận lợi để các đương sự thỏa thuận với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 805. Original section/article: 11. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hội thẩm nhân dân tham gia xét xử vụ án dân sự 1. Việc xét xử sơ thẩm vụ án dân sự có Hội thẩm nhân dân tham gia theo quy định của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn.
2. Khi biểu quyết về quyết định giải quyết vụ án dân sự, Hội thẩm nhân dân ngang quyền với Thẩm phán.

Section 806. Original section/article: 12. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân xét xử vụ án dân sự, Thẩm phán giải quyết việc dân sự độc lập và chỉ tuân theo pháp luật 1. Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân xét xử vụ án dân sự, Thẩm phán giải quyết việc dân sự độc lập và chỉ tuân theo pháp luật.
2. Nghiêm cấm cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân can thiệp vào việc xét xử của Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, việc giải quyết việc dân sự của Thẩm phán dưới bất kỳ hình thức nào.

Section 807. Original section/article: 13. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm của cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng 1. Cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng phải tôn trọng Nhân dân và chịu sự giám sát của Nhân dân.
2. Tòa án có nhiệm vụ bảo vệ công lý, bảo vệ quyền con người, quyền công dân, bảo vệ chế độ xã hội chủ nghĩa, bảo vệ lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của tổ chức, cá nhân.
Viện kiểm sát có nhiệm vụ bảo vệ pháp luật, bảo vệ quyền con người, quyền công dân, bảo vệ chế độ xã hội chủ nghĩa, bảo vệ lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của tổ chức, cá nhân, góp phần bảo đảm pháp luật được chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh và thống nhất.
3. Cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng phải giữ bí mật nhà nước, bí mật công tác theo quy định của pháp luật; giữ gìn thuần phong mỹ tục của dân tộc, bảo vệ người chưa thành niên, giữ bí mật nghề nghiệp, bí mật kinh doanh, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình của đương sự theo yêu cầu chính đáng của họ.
4. Cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về việc thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình. Trường hợp người tiến hành tố tụng có hành vi trái pháp luật thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử lý kỷ luật hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật.
5. Người tiến hành tố tụng trong khi thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có hành vi trái pháp luật gây thiệt hại cho cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân thì cơ quan trực tiếp quản lý người thi hành công vụ có hành vi trái pháp luật đó phải bồi thường cho người bị thiệt hại theo quy định của pháp luật về trách nhiệm bồi thường của Nhà nước.

Section 808. Original section/article: 14. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tòa án xét xử tập thể Tòa án xét xử tập thể vụ án dân sự và quyết định theo đa số, trừ trường hợp xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn.

Section 809. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tòa án xét xử kịp thời, công bằng, công khai 1. Tòa án xét xử kịp thời trong thời hạn do Bộ luật này quy định, bảo đảm công bằng.
2. Tòa án xét xử công khai. Trường hợp đặc biệt cần giữ bí mật nhà nước, giữ gìn thuần phong mỹ tục của dân tộc, bảo vệ người chưa thành niên hoặc giữ bí mật nghề nghiệp, bí mật kinh doanh, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình của đương sự theo yêu cầu chính đáng của họ thì Tòa án có thể xét xử kín.

Section 810. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm sự vô tư, khách quan trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Chánh án Tòa án, Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên, người phiên dịch, người giám định, thành viên Hội đồng định giá không được tiến hành hoặc tham gia tố tụng nếu có lý do xác đáng để cho rằng họ có thể không vô tư, khách quan trong khi thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình.
2. Việc phân công người tiến hành tố tụng phải bảo đảm để họ vô tư, khách quan khi thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình.

Section 811. Original section/article: 17. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm chế độ xét xử sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm 1. Chế độ xét xử sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm được bảo đảm.
Bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm của Tòa án có thể bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm của Tòa án không bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm trong thời hạn do Bộ luật này quy định thì có hiệu lực pháp luật. Bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm của Tòa án bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị thì vụ án phải được xét xử phúc thẩm. Bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật.
2. Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật mà phát hiện có vi phạm pháp luật hoặc có tình tiết mới theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì được xem xét lại theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm hoặc tái thẩm.

Section 812. Original section/article: 18. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giám đốc việc xét xử Tòa án nhân dân tối cao giám đốc việc xét xử của các Tòa án; Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao giám đốc việc xét xử của Tòa án nhân dân tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc trung ương (sau đây gọi chung là Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh), Tòa án nhân dân huyện, quận, thị xã, thành phố thuộc tỉnh và thành phố thuộc thành phố trực thuộc Trung ương (sau đây gọi chung là Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện) thuộc phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ để bảo đảm việc áp dụng pháp luật nghiêm chỉnh và thống nhất.

Section 813. Original section/article: 19. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm hiệu lực của bản án, quyết định của Tòa án 1. Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật phải được thi hành và phải được cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân tôn trọng; cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan phải nghiêm chỉnh chấp hành.
2. Trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình, Tòa án và cơ quan, tổ chức được giao nhiệm vụ thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án phải nghiêm chỉnh thi hành và chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về việc thực hiện nhiệm vụ đó.
3. Tòa án có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan thi hành án thông báo tiến độ, kết quả thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án. Cơ quan thi hành án trực tiếp tổ chức thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có trách nhiệm trả lời cho Tòa án.

Section 814. Original section/article: 20. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiếng nói và chữ viết dùng trong tố tụng dân sự Tiếng nói và chữ viết dùng trong tố tụng dân sự là tiếng Việt.
Người tham gia tố tụng dân sự có quyền dùng tiếng nói và chữ viết của dân tộc mình; trường hợp này phải có người phiên dịch.
Người tham gia tố tụng dân sự là người khuyết tật nghe, nói hoặc khuyết tật nhìn có quyền dùng ngôn ngữ, ký hiệu, chữ dành riêng cho người khuyết tật; trường hợp này phải có người biết ngôn ngữ, ký hiệu, chữ dành riêng cho người khuyết tật để dịch lại.

Section 815. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Viện kiểm sát kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự, thực hiện các quyền yêu cầu, kiến nghị, kháng nghị theo quy định của pháp luật nhằm bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự kịp thời, đúng pháp luật.
2. Viện kiểm sát tham gia các phiên họp sơ thẩm đối với các việc dân sự; phiên tòa sơ thẩm đối với những vụ án do Tòa án tiến hành thu thập chứng cứ hoặc đối tượng tranh chấp là tài sản công, lợi ích công cộng, quyền sử dụng đất, nhà ở hoặc có đương sự là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi hoặc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 816. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Viện kiểm sát tham gia phiên tòa, phiên họp phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm.
4. Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao chủ trì phối hợp với Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hướng dẫn thi hành Điều này.

Section 817. Original section/article: 22. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm chuyển giao tài liệu, giấy tờ của Tòa án 
1. Tòa án có trách nhiệm tống đạt, chuyển giao, thông báo bản án, quyết định, giấy triệu tập, giấy mời và các giấy tờ khác của Tòa án theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân liên quan có trách nhiệm chuyển giao bản án, quyết định, giấy triệu tập, giấy mời và các giấy tờ khác của Tòa án khi có yêu cầu của Tòa án và phải thông báo kết quả việc chuyển giao đó cho Tòa án.

Section 818. Original section/article: 23. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Việc tham gia tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền và nghĩa vụ tham gia tố tụng dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này, góp phần vào việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự tại Tòa án kịp thời, đúng pháp luật.

Section 819. Original section/article: 24. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm tranh tụng trong xét xử 1. Tòa án có trách nhiệm bảo đảm cho đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự thực hiện quyền tranh tụng trong xét xử sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự có quyền thu thập, giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ kể từ khi Tòa án thụ lý vụ án dân sự và có nghĩa vụ thông báo cho nhau các tài liệu, chứng cứ đã giao nộp; trình bày, đối đáp, phát biểu quan điểm, lập luận về đánh giá chứng cứ và pháp luật áp dụng để bảo vệ yêu cầu, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của mình hoặc bác bỏ yêu cầu của người khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Trong quá trình xét xử, mọi tài liệu, chứng cứ phải được xem xét đầy đủ, khách quan, toàn diện, công khai, trừ trường hợp không được công khai theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 820. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Tòa án điều hành việc tranh tụng, hỏi những vấn đề chưa rõ và căn cứ vào kết quả tranh tụng để ra bản án, quyết định.

Section 821. Original section/article: 25. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm quyền khiếu nại, tố cáo trong tố tụng dân sự Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền khiếu nại, cá nhân có quyền tố cáo những hành vi, quyết định trái pháp luật của cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng , người tiến hành tố tụng hoặc của bất cứ cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nào trong hoạt động tố tụng dân sự.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền phải tiếp nhận, xem xét và giải quyết kịp thời, đúng pháp luật khiếu nại, tố cáo; thông báo bằng văn bản về kết quả giải quyết cho người đã khiếu nại, tố cáo.
Chương III THẨM QUYỀN CỦA TÒA ÁN 
Mục 1. NHỮNG VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ THUỘC THẨM QUYỀN GIẢI QUYẾT CỦA TÒA ÁN

Section 822. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những tranh chấp về dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Tranh chấp về quốc tịch Việt Nam giữa cá nhân với cá nhân.
2. Tranh chấp về quyền sở hữu và các quyền khác đối với tài sản.
3. Tranh chấp về giao dịch dân sự, hợp đồng dân sự.
4. Tranh chấp về quyền sở hữu trí tuệ, chuyển giao công nghệ, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 823. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Tranh chấp về thừa kế tài sản.
6. Tranh chấp về bồi thường thiệt hại ngoài hợp đồng.
7. Tranh chấp về bồi thường thiệt hại do áp dụng biện pháp ngăn chặn hành chính không đúng theo quy định của pháp luật về cạnh tranh, trừ trường hợp yêu cầu bồi thường thiệt hại được giải quyết trong vụ án hành chính.
8. Tranh chấp về khai thác, sử dụng tài nguyên nước, xả thải vào nguồn nước theo quy định của Luật tài nguyên nước.
9. Tranh chấp đất đai theo quy định của pháp luật về đất đai; tranh chấp về quyền sở hữu, quyền sử dụng rừng theo quy định của Luật bảo vệ và phát triển rừng.
10. Tranh chấp liên quan đến hoạt động nghiệp vụ báo chí theo quy định của pháp luật về báo chí.
11. Tranh chấp liên quan đến yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu.
12. Tranh chấp liên quan đến tài sản bị cưỡng chế để thi hành án theo quy định của pháp luật về thi hành án dân sự.
13. Tranh chấp về kết quả bán đấu giá tài sản, thanh toán phí tổn đăng ký mua tài sản bán đấu giá theo quy định của pháp luật về thi hành án dân sự.
14. Các tranh chấp khác về dân sự, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 824. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những yêu cầu về dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Yêu cầu tuyên bố hoặc hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.
2. Yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú và quản lý tài sản của người đó.
3. Yêu cầu tuyên bố hoặc hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích.
4. Yêu cầu tuyên bố hoặc hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết.
5. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định về dân sự, quyết định về tài sản trong bản án, quyết định hình sự, hành chính của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định về dân sự, quyết định về tài sản trong bản án, quyết định hình sự, hành chính của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam.
6. Yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu.
7. Yêu cầu công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án.
8. Yêu cầu công nhận tài sản có trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam là vô chủ, công nhận quyền sở hữu của người đang quản lý đối với tài sản vô chủ trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam theo quy định tại điểm đ khoản 2

Section 825. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
9. Yêu cầu xác định quyền sở hữu, quyền sử dụng tài sản, phân chia tài sản chung để thi hành án và yêu cầu khác theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự.
10. Các yêu cầu khác về dân sự, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 826. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những tranh chấp về hôn nhân và gia đình thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Ly hôn, tranh chấp về nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn; chia tài sản sau khi ly hôn.
2. Tranh chấp về chia tài sản chung của vợ chồng trong thời kỳ hôn nhân.
3. Tranh chấp về thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn.
4. Tranh chấp về xác định cha, mẹ cho con hoặc xác định con cho cha, mẹ.
5. Tranh chấp về cấp dưỡng.
6. Tranh chấp về sinh con bằng kỹ thuật hỗ trợ sinh sản, mang thai hộ vì mục đích nhân đạo.
7. Tranh chấp về nuôi con, chia tài sản của nam, nữ chung sống với nhau như vợ chồng mà không đăng ký kết hôn hoặc khi hủy kết hôn trái pháp luật.
8. Các tranh chấp khác về hôn nhân và gia đình, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 827. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những yêu cầu về hôn nhân và gia đình thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Yêu cầu hủy việc kết hôn trái pháp luật.
2. Yêu cầu công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn.
3. Yêu cầu công nhận thỏa thuận của cha, mẹ về thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn hoặc công nhận việc thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân theo quy định của pháp luật về hôn nhân và gia đình.
4. Yêu cầu hạn chế quyền của cha, mẹ đối với con chưa thành niên hoặc quyền thăm nom con sau khi ly hôn.
5. Yêu cầu chấm dứt việc nuôi con nuôi.
6. Yêu cầu liên quan đến việc mang thai hộ theo quy định của pháp luật hôn nhân và gia đình.
7. Yêu cầu công nhận thỏa thuận chấm dứt hiệu lực của việc chia tài sản chung trong thời kỳ hôn nhân đã được thực hiện theo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án.
8. Yêu cầu tuyên bố vô hiệu thỏa thuận về chế độ tài sản của vợ chồng theo quy định của pháp luật hôn nhân và gia đình.
9. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định về hôn nhân và gia đình của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định về hôn nhân và gia đình của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam.
10. Yêu cầu xác định cha, mẹ cho con hoặc con cho cha, mẹ theo quy định của pháp luật về hôn nhân và gia đình.
11. Các yêu cầu khác về hôn nhân và gia đình, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 828. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những tranh chấp về kinh doanh, thương mại thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 
1. Tranh chấp phát sinh trong hoạt động kinh doanh, thương mại giữa cá nhân, tổ chức có đăng ký kinh doanh với nhau và đều có mục đích lợi nhuận.
2. Tranh chấp về quyền sở hữu trí tuệ, chuyển giao công nghệ giữa cá nhân, tổ chức với nhau và đều có mục đích lợi nhuận.
3. Tranh chấp giữa người chưa phải là thành viên công ty nhưng có giao dịch về chuyển nhượng phần vốn góp với công ty, thành viên công ty.
4. Tranh chấp giữa công ty với các thành viên của công ty; tranh chấp giữa công ty với người quản lý trong công ty trách nhiệm hữu hạn hoặc thành viên Hội đồng quản trị, giám đốc, tổng giám đốc trong công ty cổ phần, giữa các thành viên của công ty với nhau liên quan đến việc thành lập, hoạt động, giải thể, sáp nhập, hợp nhất, chia, tách, bàn giao tài sản của công ty, chuyển đổi hình thức tổ chức của công ty.
5. Các tranh chấp khác về kinh doanh, thương mại, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 829. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những yêu cầu về kinh doanh, thương mại thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Yêu cầu hủy bỏ nghị quyết của Đại hội đồng cổ đông, nghị quyết của Hội đồng thành viên theo quy định của pháp luật về doanh nghiệp.
2. Yêu cầu liên quan đến việc Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam giải quyết tranh chấp theo quy định của pháp luật về Trọng tài thương mại.
3. Yêu cầu bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển theo quy định của pháp luật về hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam, về hàng hải Việt Nam, trừ trường hợp bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển để bảo đảm giải quyết vụ án.
4. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định kinh doanh, thương mại của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định kinh doanh, thương mại của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam.
5. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết kinh doanh, thương mại của Trọng tài nước ngoài.
6. Các yêu cầu khác về kinh doanh, thương mại, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 830. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những tranh chấp về lao động thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Tranh chấp lao động cá nhân giữa người lao động với người sử dụng lao động phải thông qua thủ tục hòa giải của hòa giải viên lao động mà hòa giải thành nhưng các bên không thực hiện hoặc thực hiện không đúng, hòa giải không thành hoặc không hòa giải trong thời hạn do pháp luật quy định, trừ các tranh chấp lao động sau đây không bắt buộc phải qua thủ tục hòa giải:
a) Về xử lý kỷ luật lao động theo hình thức sa thải hoặc tranh chấp về trường hợp bị đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động;
b) Về bồi thường thiệt hại, trợ cấp khi chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động;
c) Giữa người giúp việc gia đình với người sử dụng lao động;
d) Về bảo hiểm xã hội theo quy định của pháp luật về bảo hiểm xã hội, về bảo hiểm y tế theo quy định của pháp luật về bảo hiểm y tế, về bảo hiểm thất nghiệp theo quy định của pháp luật về việc làm, về bảo hiểm tai nạn lao động, bệnh nghề nghiệp theo quy định của pháp luật về an toàn, vệ sinh lao động;
đ) Về bồi thường thiệt hại giữa người lao động với doanh nghiệp, đơn vị sự nghiệp công lập đưa người lao động đi làm việc ở nước ngoài theo hợp đồng.
2. Tranh chấp lao động tập thể về quyền giữa tập thể lao động với người sử dụng lao động theo quy định của pháp luật về lao động đã được Chủ tịch Ủy ban nhân dân cấp huyện giải quyết mà tập thể lao động hoặc người sử dụng lao động không đồng ý với quyết định đó hoặc quá thời hạn mà Chủ tịch Ủy ban nhân dân cấp huyện không giải quyết.
3. Tranh chấp liên quan đến lao động bao gồm:
a) Tranh chấp về học nghề, tập nghề;
b) Tranh chấp về cho thuê lại lao động;
c) Tranh chấp về quyền công đoàn, kinh phí công đoàn;
d) Tranh chấp về an toàn lao động, vệ sinh lao động.
4. Tranh chấp về bồi thường thiệt hại do đình công bất hợp pháp.
5. Các tranh chấp khác về lao động, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 831. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những yêu cầu về lao động thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu.
2. Yêu cầu xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
3. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định lao động của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định lao động của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam.
4. Yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết lao động của Trọng tài nước ngoài.
5. Các yêu cầu khác về lao động, trừ trường hợp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của cơ quan, tổ chức khác theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 832. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án đối với quyết định cá biệt của cơ quan, tổ chức 1. Khi giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, Tòa án có quyền hủy quyết định cá biệt trái pháp luật của cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền xâm phạm quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự trong vụ việc dân sự mà Tòa án có nhiệm vụ giải quyết.
2. Quyết định cá biệt quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này là quyết định đã được ban hành về một vấn đề cụ thể và được áp dụng một lần đối với một hoặc một số đối tượng cụ thể. Trường hợp vụ việc dân sự có liên quan đến quyết định này thì phải được Tòa án xem xét trong cùng một vụ việc dân sự đó.
3. Khi xem xét hủy quyết định quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, Tòa án phải đưa cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc người có thẩm quyền đã ban hành quyết định tham gia tố tụng với tư cách người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền đã ban hành quyết định phải tham gia tố tụng và trình bày ý kiến của mình về quyết định cá biệt bị Tòa án xem xét hủy.
4. Thẩm quyền của cấp Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp có xem xét việc hủy quyết định cá biệt quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này được xác định theo quy định tương ứng của Luật tố tụng hành chính về thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện, Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh.
Mục 2. THẨM QUYỀN CỦA TÒA ÁN CÁC CẤP

Section 833. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp sau đây:
a) Tranh chấp về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình quy định tại

Section 834. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, trừ tranh chấp quy định tại khoản 7

Section 835. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Tranh chấp về kinh doanh, thương mại quy định tại khoản 1

Section 836. Original section/article: 30. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Tranh chấp về lao động quy định tại

Section 837. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện có thẩm quyền giải quyết những yêu cầu sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu về dân sự quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 và 10

Section 838. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Yêu cầu về hôn nhân và gia đình quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 và 11

Section 839. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Yêu cầu về kinh doanh, thương mại quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 6

Section 840. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
d) Yêu cầu về lao động quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 5

Section 841. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Những tranh chấp, yêu cầu quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này mà có đương sự hoặc tài sản ở nước ngoài hoặc cần phải ủy thác tư pháp cho cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài, cho Tòa án, cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài không thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4 Điều này.
4. Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện nơi cư trú của công dân Việt Nam hủy việc kết hôn trái pháp luật, giải quyết việc ly hôn, các tranh chấp về quyền và nghĩa vụ của vợ chồng, cha mẹ và con, về nhận cha, mẹ, con, nuôi con nuôi và giám hộ giữa công dân Việt Nam cư trú ở khu vực biên giới với công dân của nước láng giềng cùng cư trú ở khu vực biên giới với Việt Nam theo quy định của Bộ luật này và các quy định khác của pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 842. Original section/article: 36. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của các Tòa chuyên trách Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện 1. Tòa dân sự Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những vụ việc về dân sự, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện quy định tại

Section 843. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Tòa gia đình và người chưa thành niên Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những vụ việc về hôn nhân và gia đình thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện quy định tại

Section 844. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Đối với Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện chưa có Tòa chuyên trách thì Chánh án Tòa án có trách nhiệm tổ chức công tác xét xử và phân công Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ việc thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện.

Section 845. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những vụ việc sau đây:
a) Tranh chấp về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động quy định tại các

Section 846. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 28, 30 và 32 của Bộ luật này, trừ những tranh chấp thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 4

Section 847. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Yêu cầu về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động quy định tại các

Section 848. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 29, 31 và 33 của Bộ luật này, trừ những yêu cầu thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 4

Section 849. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Tranh chấp, yêu cầu quy định tại khoản 3

Section 850. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những vụ việc dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện quy định tại

Section 851. Original section/article: 35. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này mà Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh tự mình lấy lên để giải quyết khi xét thấy cần thiết hoặc theo đề nghị của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện.

Section 852. Original section/article: 38. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của các Tòa chuyên trách Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh 1. Tòa dân sự Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền:
a) Giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp, yêu cầu về dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quy định tại

Section 853. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Giải quyết theo thủ tục phúc thẩm những vụ việc mà bản án, quyết định dân sự chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Tòa gia đình và người chưa thành niên Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền:
a) Giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp, yêu cầu về hôn nhân và gia đình thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quy định tại

Section 854. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Giải quyết theo thủ tục phúc thẩm những vụ việc mà bản án, quyết định hôn nhân và gia đình chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Tòa kinh tế Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền:
a) Giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp, yêu cầu về kinh doanh, thương mại thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quy định tại

Section 855. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Giải quyết theo thủ tục phúc thẩm những vụ việc mà bản án, quyết định kinh doanh, thương mại chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
4. Tòa lao động Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền:
a) Giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp, yêu cầu về lao động thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quy định tại

Section 856. Original section/article: 37. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Giải quyết theo thủ tục phúc thẩm những vụ việc mà bản án, quyết định lao động chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 857. Original section/article: 39. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ 1. Thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ án dân sự của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ được xác định như sau:
a) Tòa án nơi bị đơn cư trú, làm việc, nếu bị đơn là cá nhân hoặc nơi bị đơn có trụ sở, nếu bị đơn là cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm những tranh chấp về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động quy định tại các

Section 858. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 28, 30 và 32 của Bộ luật này;
b) Các đương sự có quyền tự thỏa thuận với nhau bằng văn bản yêu cầu Tòa án nơi cư trú, làm việc của nguyên đơn, nếu nguyên đơn là cá nhân hoặc nơi có trụ sở của nguyên đơn, nếu nguyên đơn là cơ quan, tổ chức giải quyết những tranh chấp về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động quy định tại các

Section 859. Original section/article: 26. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 28, 30 và 32 của Bộ luật này;
c) Đối tượng tranh chấp là bất động sản thì chỉ Tòa án nơi có bất động sản có thẩm quyền giải quyết.
2. Thẩm quyền giải quyết việc dân sự của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ được xác định như sau:
a) Tòa án nơi người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi;
b) Tòa án nơi người bị yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú, bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất tích hoặc là đã chết có nơi cư trú cuối cùng có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú và quản lý tài sản của người đó, yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất tích hoặc là đã chết;
c) Tòa án nơi người yêu cầu hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.
Tòa án đã ra quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích hoặc là đã chết có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích hoặc là đã chết;
d) Tòa án nơi người phải thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của Tòa án nước ngoài cư trú, làm việc, nếu người phải thi hành án là cá nhân hoặc nơi người phải thi hành án có trụ sở, nếu người phải thi hành án là cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc nơi có tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của Tòa án nước ngoài;
đ) Tòa án nơi người gửi đơn cư trú, làm việc, nếu người gửi đơn là cá nhân hoặc nơi người gửi đơn có trụ sở, nếu người gửi đơn là cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam;
e) Tòa án nơi người phải thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài cư trú, làm việc, nếu người phải thi hành là cá nhân hoặc nơi người phải thi hành có trụ sở, nếu người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc nơi có tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài;
g) Tòa án nơi việc đăng ký kết hôn trái pháp luật được thực hiện có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu hủy việc kết hôn trái pháp luật;
h) Tòa án nơi một trong các bên thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn;
i) Tòa án nơi một trong các bên thỏa thuận về thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận sự thỏa thuận về thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn.
Trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân yêu cầu thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn thì Tòa án nơi người con đang cư trú có thẩm quyền giải quyết;
k) Tòa án nơi cha hoặc mẹ của con chưa thành niên cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu hạn chế quyền của cha, mẹ đối với con chưa thành niên hoặc quyền thăm nom con sau khi ly hôn;
l) Tòa án nơi cha, mẹ nuôi hoặc con nuôi cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu chấm dứt việc nuôi con nuôi;
m) Tòa án nơi tổ chức hành nghề công chứng đã thực hiện việc công chứng có trụ sở có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu;
n) Tòa án nơi cơ quan thi hành án có thẩm quyền thi hành án có trụ sở hoặc nơi có tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành án có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu xác định quyền sở hữu, quyền sử dụng tài sản, phân chia tài sản chung để thi hành án và yêu cầu khác theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự;
o) Thẩm quyền của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ giải quyết yêu cầu liên quan đến việc Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam giải quyết tranh chấp được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về Trọng tài thương mại;
p) Tòa án nơi có tài sản có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận tài sản đó có trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam là vô chủ, công nhận quyền sở hữu của người đang quản lý đối với tài sản vô chủ trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
q) Tòa án nơi người mang thai hộ cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu liên quan đến việc mang thai hộ;
r) Tòa án nơi cư trú, làm việc của một trong những người có tài sản chung có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận thỏa thuận chấm dứt hiệu lực của việc chia tài sản chung trong thời kỳ hôn nhân đã được thực hiện theo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án;
s) Tòa án nơi người yêu cầu cư trú, làm việc có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án;
t) Tòa án nơi cư trú, làm việc của người yêu cầu có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu tuyên bố vô hiệu thỏa thuận về chế độ tài sản của vợ chồng theo quy định của pháp luật hôn nhân và gia đình; xác định cha, mẹ cho con hoặc con cho cha, mẹ theo quy định của pháp luật về hôn nhân và gia đình;
u) Tòa án nơi có trụ sở của doanh nghiệp có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu hủy bỏ nghị quyết của Đại hội cổ đông, nghị quyết của Hội đồng thành viên;
v) Tòa án nơi giao kết hoặc thực hiện hợp đồng lao động, thỏa ước lao động tập thể có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động, thỏa ước lao động tập thể đó vô hiệu;
x) Tòa án nơi xảy ra cuộc đình công có thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công;
y) Thẩm quyền của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ giải quyết yêu cầu bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 860. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp vụ án dân sự đã được Tòa án thụ lý và đang giải quyết theo đúng quy định của Bộ luật này về thẩm quyền của Tòa án theo lãnh thổ thì phải được Tòa án đó tiếp tục giải quyết mặc dù trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có sự thay đổi nơi cư trú, trụ sở hoặc địa chỉ giao dịch của đương sự.

Section 861. Original section/article: 40. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án theo sự lựa chọn của nguyên đơn, người yêu cầu 1. Nguyên đơn có quyền lựa chọn Tòa án giải quyết tranh chấp về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Nếu không biết nơi cư trú, làm việc, trụ sở của bị đơn thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi bị đơn cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở cuối cùng hoặc nơi bị đơn có tài sản giải quyết;
b) Nếu tranh chấp phát sinh từ hoạt động của chi nhánh tổ chức thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi tổ chức có trụ sở hoặc nơi tổ chức có chi nhánh giải quyết;
c) Nếu bị đơn không có nơi cư trú, làm việc, trụ sở ở Việt Nam hoặc vụ án về tranh chấp việc cấp dưỡng thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi mình cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở giải quyết;
d) Nếu tranh chấp về bồi thường thiệt hại ngoài hợp đồng thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi mình cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở hoặc nơi xảy ra việc gây thiệt hại giải quyết;
đ) Nếu tranh chấp về bồi thường thiệt hại, trợ cấp khi chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo hiểm y tế, bảo hiểm thất nghiệp, quyền và lợi ích liên quan đến việc làm, tiền lương, thu nhập và các điều kiện lao động khác đối với người lao động thì nguyên đơn là người lao động có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi mình cư trú, làm việc giải quyết;
e) Nếu tranh chấp phát sinh từ việc sử dụng lao động của người cai thầu hoặc người có vai trò trung gian thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi người sử dụng lao động là chủ chính cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở hoặc nơi người cai thầu, người có vai trò trung gian cư trú, làm việc giải quyết;
g) Nếu tranh chấp phát sinh từ quan hệ hợp đồng thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi hợp đồng được thực hiện giải quyết;
h) Nếu các bị đơn cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở ở nhiều nơi khác nhau thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi một trong các bị đơn cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở giải quyết;
i) Nếu tranh chấp bất động sản mà bất động sản có ở nhiều địa phương khác nhau thì nguyên đơn có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi có một trong các bất động sản giải quyết.
2. Người yêu cầu có quyền lựa chọn Tòa án giải quyết yêu cầu về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Đối với các yêu cầu về dân sự quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 và 10

Section 862. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người yêu cầu có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi mình cư trú, làm việc, có trụ sở hoặc nơi có tài sản của người bị yêu cầu giải quyết;
b) Đối với yêu cầu hủy việc kết hôn trái pháp luật quy định tại khoản 1

Section 863. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người yêu cầu có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi cư trú của một trong các bên đăng ký kết hôn trái pháp luật giải quyết;
c) Đối với yêu cầu hạn chế quyền của cha, mẹ đối với con chưa thành niên hoặc quyền thăm nom con sau khi ly hôn thì người yêu cầu có thể yêu cầu Tòa án nơi người con cư trú giải quyết.

Section 864. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuyển vụ việc dân sự cho Tòa án khác; giải quyết tranh chấp về thẩm quyền 1. Vụ việc dân sự đã được thụ lý mà không thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án đã thụ lý thì Tòa án đó ra quyết định chuyển hồ sơ vụ việc dân sự cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền và xóa tên vụ án đó trong sổ thụ lý. Quyết định này phải được gửi ngay cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan.
Đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị quyết định này trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được khiếu nại, kiến nghị, Chánh án Tòa án đã ra quyết định chuyển vụ việc dân sự phải giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị. Quyết định của Chánh án Tòa án là quyết định cuối cùng.
2. Tranh chấp về thẩm quyền giữa các Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện trong cùng một tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc Trung ương do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh giải quyết.
3. Tranh chấp về thẩm quyền giữa các Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện thuộc các tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc Trung ương khác nhau hoặc giữa các Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết theo lãnh thổ của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao thì do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao giải quyết.
4. Tranh chấp về thẩm quyền giữa các Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện thuộc các tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc Trung ương khác nhau hoặc giữa các Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết theo lãnh thổ của các Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao khác nhau do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao giải quyết.

Section 865. Original section/article: 42. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhập hoặc tách vụ án 1. Tòa án nhập hai hoặc nhiều vụ án mà Tòa án đó đã thụ lý riêng biệt thành một vụ án để giải quyết nếu việc nhập và việc giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án bảo đảm đúng pháp luật.
Đối với vụ án có nhiều người có cùng yêu cầu khởi kiện đối với cùng một cá nhân hoặc cùng một cơ quan, tổ chức thì Tòa án có thể nhập các yêu cầu của họ để giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án.
2. Tòa án tách một vụ án có các yêu cầu khác nhau thành hai hoặc nhiều vụ án nếu việc tách và việc giải quyết các vụ án được tách bảo đảm đúng pháp luật.
3. Khi nhập hoặc tách vụ án quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này, Tòa án đã thụ lý vụ án phải ra quyết định và gửi ngay cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan.
Mục 3. GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ TRONG TRƯỜNG HỢP CHƯA CÓ ĐIỀU LUẬT ĐỂ ÁP DỤNG

Section 866. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc xác định thẩm quyền của Tòa án trong trường hợp chưa có điều luật để áp dụng Thẩm quyền của Tòa án thụ lý, giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp chưa có điều luật để áp dụng được thực hiện theo quy định tại các điều từ

Section 867. Original section/article: 44. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình tự, thủ tục thụ lý, giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp chưa có điều luật để áp dụng Trình tự, thủ tục thụ lý, giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp chưa có điều luật để áp dụng được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 868. Original section/article: 45. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp chưa có điều luật để áp dụng 1. Việc áp dụng tập quán được thực hiện như sau:
Tòa án áp dụng tập quán để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận và pháp luật không quy định. Tập quán không được trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự quy định tại

Section 869. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật dân sự.
Khi yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, đương sự có quyền viện dẫn tập quán để yêu cầu Tòa án xem xét áp dụng.
Tòa án có trách nhiệm xác định giá trị áp dụng của tập quán bảo đảm đúng quy định tại

Section 870. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật dân sự.
Trường hợp các đương sự viện dẫn các tập quán khác nhau thì tập quán có giá trị áp dụng là tập quán được thừa nhận tại nơi phát sinh vụ việc dân sự.
2. Việc áp dụng tương tự pháp luật được thực hiện như sau:
Tòa án áp dụng tương tự pháp luật để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự trong trường hợp các bên không có thỏa thuận, pháp luật không có quy định và không có tập quán được áp dụng theo quy định tại

Section 871. Original section/article: 5. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật dân sự và khoản 1 Điều này.
Khi áp dụng tương tự pháp luật, Tòa án phải xác định rõ tính chất pháp lý của vụ việc dân sự, xác định rõ ràng trong hệ thống pháp luật hiện hành không có quy phạm pháp luật nào điều chỉnh quan hệ đó và xác định quy phạm pháp luật điều chỉnh quan hệ dân sự tương tự.
3. Việc áp dụng các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự, án lệ, lẽ công bằng được thực hiện như sau:
Tòa án áp dụng các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự, án lệ, lẽ công bằng để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự khi không thể áp dụng tập quán, tương tự pháp luật theo quy định tại

Section 872. Original section/article: 6. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật dân sự, khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này.
Các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự là những nguyên tắc được quy định tại

Section 873. Original section/article: 3. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật dân sự.
Án lệ được Tòa án nghiên cứu, áp dụng trong giải quyết vụ việc dân sự khi đã được Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao lựa chọn và được Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao công bố.
Lẽ công bằng được xác định trên cơ sở lẽ phải được mọi người trong xã hội thừa nhận, phù hợp với nguyên tắc nhân đạo, không thiên vị và bình đẳng về quyền và nghĩa vụ của các đương sự trong vụ việc dân sự đó.
Chương IV CƠ QUAN TIẾN HÀNH TỐ TỤNG, NGƯỜI TIẾN HÀNH TỐ TỤNG VÀ VIỆC THAY 
ĐỔI NGƯỜI TIẾN HÀNH TỐ TỤNG

Section 874. Original section/article: 46. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng, người tiến hành tố tụng 1. Các cơ quan tiến hành tố tụng dân sự gồm có:
a) Tòa án;
b) Viện kiểm sát.
2. Những người tiến hành tố tụng dân sự gồm có:
a) Chánh án Tòa án, Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án;
b) Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.

Section 875. Original section/article: 47. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Chánh án Tòa án 1. Chánh án Tòa án có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
a) Tổ chức công tác giải quyết vụ việc dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án; bảo đảm thực hiện nguyên tắc Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm xét xử độc lập và chỉ tuân theo pháp luật;
b) Quyết định phân công Thẩm phán thụ lý vụ việc dân sự, Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, Hội thẩm nhân dân tham gia Hội đồng xét xử vụ án dân sự; quyết định phân công Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án tiến hành tố tụng đối với vụ việc dân sự bảo đảm đúng nguyên tắc quy định tại khoản 2

Section 876. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Quyết định thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án trước khi mở phiên tòa;
d) Quyết định thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch trước khi mở phiên tòa;
đ) Ra quyết định và tiến hành hoạt động tố tụng dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
e) Giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
g) Kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án theo quy định của Bộ luật này hoặc kiến nghị Chánh án Tòa án có thẩm quyền xem xét kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án;
h) Kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét, sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật nếu phát hiện có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội,
pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
i) Xử lý hành vi cản trở hoạt động tố tụng dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật;
k) Thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Khi Chánh án vắng mặt, một Phó Chánh án được Chánh án ủy nhiệm thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Chánh án, trừ quyền kháng nghị quy định tại điểm g khoản 1 Điều này. Phó Chánh án chịu trách nhiệm trước Chánh án về việc thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn được ủy nhiệm.

Section 877. Original section/article: 48. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Thẩm phán Khi được Chánh án Tòa án phân công, Thẩm phán có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Xử lý đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu, thụ lý vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Lập hồ sơ vụ việc dân sự.
3. Tiến hành thu thập, xác minh chứng cứ, tổ chức phiên tòa, phiên họp để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
4. Quyết định việc áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.
5. Quyết định tạm đình chỉ hoặc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, quyết định tiếp tục đưa vụ việc dân sự ra giải quyết.
6. Giải thích, hướng dẫn cho đương sự biết để họ thực hiện quyền được yêu cầu trợ giúp pháp lý theo quy định của pháp luật về trợ giúp pháp lý.
7. Tiến hành phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải, ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
8. Quyết định đưa vụ án dân sự ra xét xử, đưa việc dân sự ra giải quyết.
9. Triệu tập người tham gia phiên tòa, phiên họp.
10. Chủ tọa hoặc tham gia xét xử vụ án dân sự, giải quyết việc dân sự.
11. Đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án phân công Thẩm tra viên hỗ trợ thực hiện hoạt
động tố tụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
12. Phát hiện và đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét, sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
13. Xử lý hành vi cản trở hoạt động tố tụng dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật.
14. Tiến hành hoạt động tố tụng khác khi giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 878. Original section/article: 49. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Hội thẩm nhân dân Khi được Chánh án Tòa án phân công, Hội thẩm nhân dân có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ án trước khi mở phiên tòa.
2. Đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án, Thẩm phán ra các quyết định cần thiết thuộc thẩm quyền.
3. Tham gia Hội đồng xét xử vụ án dân sự.
4. Tiến hành các hoạt động tố tụng và ngang quyền với Thẩm phán khi biểu quyết những vấn đề thuộc thẩm quyền của Hội đồng xét xử.

Section 879. Original section/article: 50. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
. Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Thẩm tra viên Khi được Chánh án Tòa án phân công, Thẩm tra viên có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Thẩm tra hồ sơ vụ việc dân sự mà bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật cần xem xét lại theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm.
2. Kết luận về việc thẩm tra và báo cáo kết quả thẩm tra, đề xuất phương án giải quyết vụ việc dân sự với Chánh án Tòa án.
3. Thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan đến vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
4. Hỗ trợ Thẩm phán thực hiện hoạt động tố tụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
5. Thực hiện nhiệm vụ khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 880. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Thư ký Tòa án Khi được Chánh án Tòa án phân công, Thư ký Tòa án có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Chuẩn bị các công tác nghiệp vụ cần thiết trước khi khai mạc phiên tòa.
2. Phổ biến nội quy phiên tòa.
3. Kiểm tra và báo cáo với Hội đồng xét xử danh sách những người được triệu tập đến phiên tòa.
4. Ghi biên bản phiên tòa, phiên họp, biên bản lấy lời khai của người tham gia tố tụng.
5. Thực hiện nhiệm vụ khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 881. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những trường hợp phải từ chối hoặc thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng Người tiến hành tố tụng phải từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
1. Họ đồng thời là đương sự, người đại diện, người thân thích của đương sự.
2. Họ đã tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người làm chứng, người giám định, người phiên dịch trong cùng vụ việc đó.
3. Có căn cứ rõ ràng cho rằng họ có thể không vô tư trong khi làm nhiệm vụ.

Section 882. Original section/article: 53. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân phải từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
1. Thuộc một trong những trường hợp quy định tại

Section 883. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Họ cùng trong một Hội đồng xét xử và là người thân thích với nhau; trong trường hợp này, chỉ có một người được tiến hành tố tụng.
3. Họ đã tham gia giải quyết theo thủ tục sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm hoặc tái thẩm vụ việc dân sự đó và đã ra bản án sơ thẩm, bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm, quyết định giám đốc thẩm
hoặc tái thẩm, quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc, quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự, trừ trường hợp là thành viên của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao thì vẫn được tham gia giải quyết vụ việc đó theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm.
4. Họ đã là người tiến hành tố tụng trong vụ việc đó với tư cách là Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.

Section 884. Original section/article: 54. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi Thư ký Tòa án, Thẩm tra viên Thư ký Tòa án, Thẩm tra viên phải từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
1. Thuộc một trong những trường hợp quy định tại

Section 885. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Họ đã là người tiến hành tố tụng trong vụ việc đó với tư cách là Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.
3. Là người thân thích với một trong những người tiến hành tố tụng khác trong vụ việc đó.

Section 886. Original section/article: 55. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án 1. Việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án trước khi mở phiên tòa, phiên họp phải được lập thành văn bản, trong đó nêu rõ lý do và căn cứ của việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng.
2. Việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi những người quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này tại phiên tòa, phiên họp phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa, phiên họp.

Section 887. Original section/article: 56. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án do Chánh án Tòa án quyết định. Trường hợp Thẩm phán bị thay đổi là Chánh án Tòa án thì thẩm quyền quyết định việc thay đổi như sau:
a) Thẩm phán là Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện thì do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quyết định;
b) Thẩm phán là Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh thì do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao có thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ đối với Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh đó quyết định;
c) Thẩm phán là Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao thì do Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quyết định.
2. Tại phiên tòa, việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án do Hội đồng xét xử quyết định sau khi nghe ý kiến của người bị yêu cầu thay đổi. Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận tại phòng nghị án và quyết định theo đa số. Trường hợp phải thay đổi Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án thì Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định hoãn phiên tòa. Chánh án Tòa án quyết định cử Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án thay thế người bị thay đổi. Nếu người bị thay đổi là Chánh án Tòa án thì thẩm quyền quyết định được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.
3. Việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Thư ký Tòa án khi giải quyết việc dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2

Section 888. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày hoãn phiên tòa, phiên họp, Chánh án Tòa án phải cử người khác thay thế.

Section 889. Original section/article: 57. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát 1. Khi kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
a) Tổ chức và chỉ đạo thực hiện công tác kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự;
b) Quyết định phân công Kiểm sát viên thực hiện kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự, tham gia phiên tòa xét xử vụ án dân sự, phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này và thông báo cho Tòa án; quyết định phân công Kiểm tra viên tiến hành tố tụng đối với vụ việc dân sự bảo đảm đúng nguyên tắc quy định tại khoản 2

Section 890. Original section/article: 16. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Quyết định thay đổi Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên;
d) Kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bản án, quyết định của Tòa án theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
đ) Yêu cầu, kiến nghị theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
e) Giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
g) Thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Khi Viện trưởng vắng mặt, một Phó Viện trưởng được Viện trưởng ủy nhiệm thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Viện trưởng, trừ quyền quyết định kháng nghị quy định tại điểm d khoản 1 Điều này. Phó Viện trưởng chịu trách nhiệm trước Viện trưởng về việc thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn được ủy nhiệm.

Section 891. Original section/article: 58. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Kiểm sát viên Khi được Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát phân công thực hiện kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự, Kiểm sát viên có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Kiểm sát việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu.
2. Kiểm sát việc thụ lý, giải quyết vụ việc dân sự.
3. Nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ việc; yêu cầu Tòa án xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này; thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ theo quy định tại khoản 6

Section 892. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Tham gia phiên tòa, phiên họp và phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc giải quyết vụ việc theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
5. Kiểm sát bản án, quyết định của Tòa án.
6. Kiến nghị, yêu cầu Tòa án thực hiện đúng các hoạt động tố tụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
7. Đề nghị Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát có thẩm quyền kháng nghị bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có vi phạm pháp luật.
8. Kiểm sát hoạt động tố tụng của người tham gia tố tụng; yêu cầu, kiến nghị cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền xử lý nghiêm minh người tham gia tố tụng vi phạm pháp luật.
9. Thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn tố tụng dân sự khác thuộc thẩm quyền của Viện kiểm sát theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 893. Original section/article: 59. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Kiểm tra viên Khi được phân công tiến hành hoạt động tố tụng, Kiểm tra viên có nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
1. Nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ việc, báo cáo kết quả với Kiểm sát viên.
2. Lập hồ sơ kiểm sát vụ việc dân sự theo phân công của Kiểm sát viên hoặc Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát.
3. Giúp Kiểm sát viên kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự.

Section 894. Original section/article: 60. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên phải từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
1. Thuộc một trong những trường hợp quy định tại

Section 895. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Họ đã là người tiến hành tố tụng trong vụ việc đó với tư cách là Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.

Section 896. Original section/article: 61. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm sát viên phải được lập thành văn bản, trong đó nêu rõ lý do và căn cứ của việc từ chối hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm sát viên.
Việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm tra viên phải được lập thành văn bản, trong đó nêu rõ lý do và căn cứ của việc từ chối hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm tra viên.
2. Tại phiên tòa, việc từ chối tiến hành tố tụng hoặc đề nghị thay đổi Kiểm sát viên phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa.

Section 897. Original section/article: 62. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp quyết định; nếu Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi là Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát thì do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp quyết định.
Việc thay đổi Kiểm tra viên do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp quyết định.
2. Tại phiên tòa, việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên do Hội đồng xét xử quyết định sau khi nghe ý kiến của người bị yêu cầu thay đổi. Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận tại phòng nghị án và quyết định theo đa số.
Trường hợp phải thay đổi Kiểm sát viên thì Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định hoãn phiên tòa. Việc cử Kiểm sát viên thay thế Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp quyết định. Nếu Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi là Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát thì do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp quyết định.
3. Việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên khi giải quyết việc dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 3

Section 898. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày hoãn phiên tòa, phiên họp, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát phải cử người khác thay thế và thông báo bằng văn bản cho Tòa án.
Chương V THÀNH PHẦN GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ

Section 899. Original section/article: 63. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hội đồng xét xử sơ thẩm vụ án dân sự Hội đồng xét xử sơ thẩm vụ án dân sự gồm một Thẩm phán và hai Hội thẩm nhân dân, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 900. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trong trường hợp đặc biệt thì Hội đồng xét xử sơ thẩm có thể gồm hai Thẩm phán và ba Hội thẩm nhân dân.
Đối với vụ án có đương sự là người chưa thành niên thì phải có Hội thẩm nhân dân là người đã hoặc đang công tác tại Đoàn thanh niên Cộng sản Hồ Chí Minh, Hội liên hiệp phụ nữ Việt Nam, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em.
Đối với vụ án lao động thì phải có Hội thẩm nhân dân là người đã hoặc đang công tác trong tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động hoặc người có kiến thức về pháp luật lao động.

Section 901. Original section/article: 64. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án dân sự Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án dân sự gồm ba Thẩm phán, trừ trường hợp quy định tại

Section 902. Original section/article: 65. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xét xử vụ án dân sự theo thủ tục rút gọn Việc xét xử sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm vụ án dân sự theo thủ tục rút gọn do một Thẩm phán tiến hành.

Section 903. Original section/article: 66. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm vụ án dân sự 1. Ủy ban thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm ba Thẩm phán hoặc toàn thể Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao.
2. Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm năm Thẩm phán hoặc toàn thể Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.

Section 904. Original section/article: 67. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thành phần giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Yêu cầu về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động quy định tại khoản 5

Section 905. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 906. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc việc xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị đối với quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự do tập thể gồm ba Thẩm phán giải quyết.
2. Yêu cầu về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động không thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này do một Thẩm phán giải quyết.
3. Thành phần giải quyết yêu cầu về kinh doanh, thương mại quy định tại khoản 2

Section 907. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về Trọng tài thương mại.
Chương VI NGƯỜI THAM GIA TỐ TỤNG 
Mục 1. ĐƯƠNG SỰ TRONG VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ

Section 908. Original section/article: 68. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đương sự trong vụ việc dân sự 1. Đương sự trong vụ án dân sự là cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân bao gồm nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Đương sự trong việc dân sự là cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân bao gồm người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự và người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
2. Nguyên đơn trong vụ án dân sự là người khởi kiện, người được cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác do Bộ luật này quy định khởi kiện để yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết vụ án dân sự khi cho rằng quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người đó bị xâm phạm.
Cơ quan, tổ chức do Bộ luật này quy định khởi kiện vụ án dân sự để yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước thuộc lĩnh vực mình phụ trách cũng là nguyên đơn.
3. Bị đơn trong vụ án dân sự là người bị nguyên đơn khởi kiện hoặc bị cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác do Bộ luật này quy định khởi kiện để yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết vụ án dân sự khi cho rằng quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn bị người đó xâm phạm.
4. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trong vụ án dân sự là người tuy không khởi kiện, không bị kiện, nhưng việc giải quyết vụ án dân sự có liên quan đến quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ của họ nên họ được tự mình đề nghị hoặc các đương sự khác đề nghị và được Tòa án chấp nhận đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Trường hợp việc giải quyết vụ án dân sự có liên quan đến quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ của một người nào đó mà không có ai đề nghị đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan thì Tòa án phải đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
5. Người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự là người yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận hoặc không công nhận một sự kiện pháp lý làm căn cứ phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của mình hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác; yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận cho mình quyền về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động.
6. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trong việc dân sự là người tuy không yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự nhưng việc giải quyết việc dân sự có liên quan đến quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ của họ nên họ được tự mình đề nghị hoặc đương sự trong việc dân sự đề nghị và được Tòa án chấp nhận đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Trường hợp giải quyết việc dân sự có liên quan đến quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ của một người nào đó mà không có ai đề nghị đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan thì Tòa án phải đưa họ vào tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trong việc dân sự.

Section 909. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự và năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự của đương sự 1. Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự là khả năng có các quyền, nghĩa vụ trong tố tụng dân sự do pháp luật quy định. Mọi cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự như nhau trong việc yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình.
2. Năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự là khả năng tự mình thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự hoặc ủy quyền cho người đại diện tham gia tố tụng dân sự.
3. Đương sự là người từ đủ mười tám tuổi trở lên có đầy đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự, trừ người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc pháp luật có quy định khác.
Đối với người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự của họ được xác định theo quyết định của Tòa án.
4. Đương sự là người chưa đủ sáu tuổi hoặc người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự thì không có năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự. Việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của đương sự, việc bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho những người này tại Tòa án do người đại diện hợp pháp của họ thực hiện.
5. Đương sự là người từ đủ sáu tuổi đến chưa đủ mười lăm tuổi thì việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của đương sự, việc bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho những người này tại Tòa án do người đại diện hợp pháp của họ thực hiện.
Đối với người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của họ, việc bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho họ được xác định theo quyết định của Tòa án.
6. Đương sự là người từ đủ mười lăm tuổi đến chưa đủ mười tám tuổi đã tham gia lao động theo hợp đồng lao động hoặc giao dịch dân sự bằng tài sản riêng của mình được tự mình tham gia tố tụng về những việc có liên quan đến quan hệ lao động hoặc quan hệ dân sự đó. Trong trường hợp này, Tòa án có quyền triệu tập người đại diện hợp pháp của họ tham gia tố tụng. Đối với những việc khác, việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của đương sự tại Tòa án do người đại diện hợp pháp của họ thực hiện.
7. Đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức do người đại diện hợp pháp tham gia tố tụng.

Section 910. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự Đương sự có quyền, nghĩa vụ ngang nhau khi tham gia tố tụng. Khi tham gia tố tụng, đương sự có quyền, nghĩa vụ sau đây:
1. Tôn trọng Tòa án, chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh nội quy phiên tòa.
2. Nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí, tạm ứng lệ phí, án phí, lệ phí và chi phí tố tụng khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Cung cấp đầy đủ, chính xác địa chỉ nơi cư trú, trụ sở của mình; trong quá trình Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc nếu có thay đổi địa chỉ nơi cư trú, trụ sở thì phải thông báo kịp thời cho đương sự khác và Tòa án.
4. Giữ nguyên, thay đổi, bổ sung hoặc rút yêu cầu theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
5. Cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ; chứng minh để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình.
6. Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đang lưu giữ, quản lý tài liệu, chứng cứ cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ đó cho mình.
7. Đề nghị Tòa án xác minh, thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ của vụ việc mà tự mình không thể thực hiện được; đề nghị Tòa án yêu cầu đương sự khác xuất trình tài liệu, chứng cứ mà họ đang giữ; đề nghị Tòa án ra quyết định yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đang lưu giữ, quản lý tài liệu, chứng cứ cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ đó; đề nghị Tòa án triệu tập người làm chứng, trưng cầu giám định, quyết định việc định giá tài sản.
8. Được biết, ghi chép, sao chụp tài liệu, chứng cứ do đương sự khác xuất trình hoặc do Tòa án thu thập, trừ tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại khoản 2

Section 911. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
9. Có nghĩa vụ gửi cho đương sự khác hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ bản sao đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ, trừ tài liệu, chứng cứ mà đương sự khác đã có, tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại khoản 2

Section 912. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp vì lý do chính đáng không thể sao chụp, gửi đơn khởi kiện, tài liệu, chứng cứ thì họ có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án hỗ trợ.
10. Đề nghị Tòa án quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.
11. Tự thỏa thuận với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án; tham gia hòa giải do Tòa án tiến hành.
12. Nhận thông báo hợp lệ để thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình.
13. Tự bảo vệ hoặc nhờ người khác bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho mình.
14. Yêu cầu thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
15. Tham gia phiên tòa, phiên họp theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
16. Phải có mặt theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án và chấp hành quyết định của Tòa án trong quá trình Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc.
17. Đề nghị Tòa án đưa người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan tham gia tố tụng.
18. Đề nghị Tòa án tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
19. Đưa ra câu hỏi với người khác về vấn đề liên quan đến vụ án hoặc đề xuất với Tòa án những vấn đề cần hỏi người khác; được đối chất với nhau hoặc với người làm chứng.
20. Tranh luận tại phiên tòa, đưa ra lập luận về đánh giá chứng cứ và pháp luật áp dụng.
21. Được cấp trích lục bản án, bản án, quyết định của Tòa án.
22. Kháng cáo, khiếu nại bản án, quyết định của Tòa án theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
23. Đề nghị người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật.
24. Chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật.
25. Sử dụng quyền của đương sự một cách thiện chí, không được lạm dụng để gây cản trở hoạt động tố tụng của Tòa án, đương sự khác; trường hợp không thực hiện nghĩa vụ thì phải chịu hậu quả do Bộ luật này quy định.
26. Quyền, nghĩa vụ khác mà pháp luật có quy định.

Section 913. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn 1. Các quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự quy định tại

Section 914. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Thay đổi nội dung yêu cầu khởi kiện; rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện.
3. Chấp nhận hoặc bác bỏ một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu phản tố của bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập.

Section 915. Original section/article: 72. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của bị đơn 
1. Các quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự quy định tại

Section 916. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Được Tòa án thông báo về việc bị khởi kiện.
3. Chấp nhận hoặc bác bỏ một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập.
4. Đưa ra yêu cầu phản tố đối với nguyên đơn, nếu có liên quan đến yêu cầu của nguyên đơn hoặc đề nghị đối trừ với nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn. Đối với yêu cầu phản tố thì bị đơn có quyền, nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn quy định tại

Section 917. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Đưa ra yêu cầu độc lập đối với người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và yêu cầu độc lập này có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án. Đối với yêu cầu độc lập thì bị đơn có quyền, nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn quy định tại

Section 918. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
6. Trường hợp yêu cầu phản tố hoặc yêu cầu độc lập không được Tòa án chấp nhận để giải quyết trong cùng vụ án thì bị đơn có quyền khởi kiện vụ án khác.

Section 919. Original section/article: 73. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan 1. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền, nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Các quyền, nghĩa vụ quy định tại

Section 920. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Có thể có yêu cầu độc lập hoặc tham gia tố tụng với bên nguyên đơn hoặc với bên bị đơn.
2. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập và yêu cầu độc lập này có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án thì có quyền, nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn quy định tại

Section 921. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp yêu cầu độc lập không được Tòa án chấp nhận để giải quyết trong cùng vụ án thì người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền khởi kiện vụ án khác.
3. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan nếu tham gia tố tụng với bên nguyên đơn hoặc chỉ có quyền lợi thì có quyền, nghĩa vụ của nguyên đơn quy định tại

Section 922. Original section/article: 71. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan nếu tham gia tố tụng với bên bị đơn hoặc chỉ có nghĩa vụ thì có quyền, nghĩa vụ của bị đơn quy định tại

Section 923. Original section/article: 74. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng 1. Trường hợp đương sự là cá nhân đang tham gia tố tụng chết mà quyền, nghĩa vụ về tài sản của họ được thừa kế thì người thừa kế tham gia tố tụng.
2. Trường hợp đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức đang tham gia tố tụng phải chấm dứt hoạt động, bị giải thể, hợp nhất, sáp nhập, chia, tách, chuyển đổi hình thức tổ chức thì việc kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan, tổ chức đó được xác định như sau:
a) Trường hợp tổ chức phải chấm dứt hoạt động, bị giải thể là công ty cổ phần, công ty trách nhiệm hữu hạn, công ty hợp danh thì cá nhân, tổ chức là thành viên của tổ chức đó hoặc đại diện của họ tham gia tố tụng;
b) Trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức phải chấm dứt hoạt động, bị giải thể là cơ quan nhà nước, đơn vị vũ trang nhân dân, tổ chức chính trị, tổ chức chính trị - xã hội, tổ chức chính trị xã hội - nghề nghiệp, tổ chức xã hội, tổ chức xã hội - nghề nghiệp, doanh nghiệp nhà nước thì đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức cấp trên trực tiếp của cơ quan, tổ chức đó hoặc đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức tiếp nhận các quyền, nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức đó tham gia tố tụng;
c) Trường hợp tổ chức hợp nhất, sáp nhập, chia, tách, chuyển đổi hình thức tổ chức thì cá nhân, tổ chức tiếp nhận quyền, nghĩa vụ của tổ chức đó tham gia tố tụng.
3. Trường hợp thay đổi chủ sở hữu của tổ chức và có việc chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ cho chủ sở hữu mới thì chủ sở hữu mới kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng.
4. Trường hợp tổ chức được chuyển giao quyền, nghĩa vụ theo quy định của pháp luật về dân sự thì tổ chức đó kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng.
5. Trường hợp tổ chức không có tư cách pháp nhân tham gia quan hệ dân sự mà người đại diện đang tham gia tố tụng chết thì tổ chức đó phải cử người khác làm đại diện để tham gia tố tụng; nếu không cử được người đại diện hoặc tổ chức đó phải chấm dứt hoạt động, bị giải thể thì các cá nhân là thành viên của tổ chức đó tham gia tố tụng.
Mục 2. NHỮNG NGƯỜI THAM GIA TỐ TỤNG KHÁC

Section 924. Original section/article: 75. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự 1. Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự là người tham gia tố tụng để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự.
2. Những người sau đây được làm người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự khi có yêu cầu của đương sự và được Tòa án làm thủ tục đăng ký người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự:
a) Luật sư tham gia tố tụng theo quy định của pháp luật về luật sư;
b) Trợ giúp viên pháp lý hoặc người tham gia trợ giúp pháp lý theo quy định của pháp luật về trợ giúp pháp lý;
c) Đại diện của tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động là người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người lao động trong vụ việc lao động theo quy định của pháp luật về lao động, công đoàn;
d) Công dân Việt Nam có năng lực hành vi dân sự đầy đủ, không có án tích hoặc đã được xóa án tích, không thuộc trường hợp đang bị áp dụng biện pháp xử lý hành chính; không phải là cán bộ, công chức trong các cơ quan Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát và công chức, sĩ quan, hạ sĩ quan trong ngành Công an.
3. Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự có thể bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nhiều đương sự trong cùng một vụ án, nếu quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của những người đó không đối lập nhau. Nhiều người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự có thể cùng bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của một đương sự trong vụ án.
4. Khi đề nghị Tòa án làm thủ tục đăng ký người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người đề nghị phải xuất trình các giấy tờ sau đây:
a) Luật sư xuất trình các giấy tờ theo quy định của Luật luật sư;
b) Trợ giúp viên pháp lý hoặc người tham gia trợ giúp pháp lý xuất trình văn bản cử người thực hiện trợ giúp pháp lý của tổ chức thực hiện trợ giúp pháp lý và thẻ trợ giúp viên pháp lý hoặc thẻ luật sư;
c) Đại diện của tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động xuất trình văn bản của tổ chức đó cử mình tham gia bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho người lao động, tập thể người lao động;
d) Công dân Việt Nam có đủ điều kiện quy định tại điểm d khoản 2 Điều này xuất trình giấy yêu cầu của đương sự và giấy tờ tùy thân.
5. Sau khi kiểm tra giấy tờ và thấy người đề nghị có đủ điều kiện làm người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự quy định tại các khoản 2, 3 và 4 Điều này thì trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được đề nghị, Tòa án phải vào sổ đăng ký người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự và xác nhận vào giấy yêu cầu người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự. Trường hợp từ chối đăng ký thì Tòa án phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho người đề nghị.

Section 925. Original section/article: 76. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự 1. Tham gia tố tụng từ khi khởi kiện hoặc bất cứ giai đoạn nào trong quá trình tố tụng dân sự.
2. Thu thập và cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án; nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ án và được ghi chép, sao chụp những tài liệu cần thiết có trong hồ sơ vụ án để thực hiện việc bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, trừ tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại khoản 2

Section 926. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Tham gia việc hòa giải, phiên họp, phiên tòa hoặc trường hợp không tham gia thì được gửi văn bản bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự cho Tòa án xem xét.
4. Thay mặt đương sự yêu cầu thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
5. Giúp đương sự về mặt pháp lý liên quan đến việc bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ; trường hợp được đương sự ủy quyền thì thay mặt đương sự nhận giấy tờ, văn bản tố tụng mà Tòa án tống đạt hoặc thông báo và có trách nhiệm chuyển cho đương sự.
6. Các quyền, nghĩa vụ quy định tại các khoản 1, 6, 16, 17, 18, 19 và 20

Section 927. Original section/article: 70. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
7. Quyền, nghĩa vụ khác mà pháp luật có quy định.

Section 928. Original section/article: 77. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người làm chứng Người biết các tình tiết có liên quan đến nội dung vụ việc được đương sự đề nghị, Tòa án triệu tập tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người làm chứng. Người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự không thể là người làm chứng.

Section 929. Original section/article: 78. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người làm chứng 1. Cung cấp toàn bộ thông tin, tài liệu, đồ vật mà mình có được có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ việc.
2. Khai báo trung thực những tình tiết mà mình biết được có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ việc.
3. Được từ chối khai báo nếu lời khai của mình liên quan đến bí mật nhà nước, bí mật nghề nghiệp, bí mật kinh doanh, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình hoặc việc khai báo đó có ảnh hưởng xấu, bất lợi cho đương sự là người có quan hệ thân thích với mình.
4. Được nghỉ việc trong thời gian Tòa án triệu tập hoặc lấy lời khai, nếu làm việc trong cơ quan, tổ chức.
5. Được thanh toán các khoản chi phí có liên quan theo quy định của pháp luật.
6. Yêu cầu Tòa án đã triệu tập, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền bảo vệ tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự, nhân phẩm, tài sản và các quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp khác của mình khi tham gia tố tụng; khiếu nại hành vi tố tụng của người tiến hành tố tụng.
7. Bồi thường thiệt hại và chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật do khai báo sai sự thật gây thiệt hại cho đương sự hoặc cho người khác.
8. Phải có mặt tại Tòa án, phiên tòa, phiên họp theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án nếu việc lấy lời khai của người làm chứng phải thực hiện công khai tại Tòa án, phiên tòa, phiên họp; trường hợp người làm chứng không đến phiên tòa, phiên họp mà không có lý do chính đáng và việc vắng mặt của họ cản trở việc xét xử, giải quyết thì Thẩm phán, Hội đồng xét xử, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự có thể ra quyết định dẫn giải người làm chứng đến phiên tòa, phiên họp, trừ trường hợp người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên.
9. Phải cam đoan trước Tòa án về việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình, trừ trường hợp người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên.

Section 930. Original section/article: 79. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người giám định Người giám định là người có kiến thức, kinh nghiệm cần thiết theo quy định của pháp luật về lĩnh vực có đối tượng cần giám định mà Tòa án trưng cầu giám định hoặc được đương sự yêu cầu giám định theo quy định tại

Section 931. Original section/article: 80. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người giám định 1. Người giám định có quyền, nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Được đọc tài liệu có trong hồ sơ vụ án liên quan đến đối tượng giám định; yêu cầu Tòa án cung cấp tài liệu cần thiết cho việc giám định;
b) Đặt câu hỏi đối với người tham gia tố tụng về những vấn đề có liên quan đến đối tượng giám định;
c) Phải có mặt theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án; trình bày, giải thích, trả lời những vấn đề liên quan đến việc giám định và kết luận giám định một cách trung thực, có căn cứ, khách quan;
d) Phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho Tòa án về việc không thể giám định được do việc cần giám định vượt quá khả năng chuyên môn, tài liệu cung cấp phục vụ cho việc giám định không đủ hoặc không sử dụng được;
đ) Phải bảo quản tài liệu đã nhận và gửi trả lại Tòa án cùng với kết luận giám định hoặc cùng với thông báo về việc không thể giám định được;
e) Không được tự mình thu thập tài liệu để tiến hành giám định, tiếp xúc với người tham gia tố tụng khác nếu việc tiếp xúc đó làm ảnh hưởng đến kết quả giám định; không được tiết lộ bí mật thông tin mà mình biết khi tiến hành giám định hoặc thông báo kết quả giám định cho người khác, trừ Thẩm phán quyết định trưng cầu giám định;
g) Được thanh toán các chi phí có liên quan theo quy định của pháp luật;
h) Phải cam đoan trước Tòa án về việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình.
2. Người giám định phải từ chối giám định hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
a) Thuộc một trong những trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 3

Section 932. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và tại

Section 933. Original section/article: 34. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Luật giám định tư pháp;
b) Họ đã tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người làm chứng, người phiên dịch trong cùng vụ án đó;
c) Họ đã tiến hành tố tụng trong vụ án đó với tư cách là Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.

Section 934. Original section/article: 81. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người phiên dịch 1. Người phiên dịch là người có khả năng dịch từ một ngôn ngữ khác ra tiếng Việt và ngược lại trong trường hợp có người tham gia tố tụng không sử dụng được tiếng Việt. Người phiên dịch được một bên đương sự lựa chọn hoặc các bên đương sự thỏa thuận lựa chọn và được Tòa án chấp nhận hoặc được Tòa án yêu cầu để phiên dịch.
2. Người biết chữ của người khuyết tật nhìn hoặc biết nghe, nói bằng ngôn ngữ, ký hiệu của người khuyết tật nghe, nói cũng được coi là người phiên dịch.
Trường hợp chỉ có người đại diện hoặc người thân thích của người khuyết tật nhìn hoặc người khuyết tật nghe, nói biết được chữ, ngôn ngữ, ký hiệu của người khuyết tật thì người đại diện hoặc người thân thích có thể được Tòa án chấp nhận làm người phiên dịch cho người khuyết tật đó.

Section 935. Original section/article: 82. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người phiên dịch 1. Người phiên dịch có quyền, nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Phải có mặt theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án;
b) Phải phiên dịch trung thực, khách quan, đúng nghĩa;
c) Đề nghị người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng giải thích thêm nội dung cần phiên dịch;
d) Không được tiếp xúc với người tham gia tố tụng khác nếu việc tiếp xúc đó làm ảnh hưởng đến tính trung thực, khách quan, đúng nghĩa khi phiên dịch;
đ) Được thanh toán các chi phí có liên quan theo quy định của pháp luật;
e) Phải cam đoan trước Tòa án về việc thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình.
2. Người phiên dịch phải từ chối phiên dịch hoặc bị thay đổi trong những trường hợp sau đây:
a) Thuộc một trong những trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 3

Section 936. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Họ đã tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người làm chứng, người giám định trong cùng vụ án đó;
c) Họ đã tiến hành tố tụng với tư cách là Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên.

Section 937. Original section/article: 83. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục từ chối giám định, phiên dịch hoặc đề nghị thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch 1. Việc từ chối giám định, phiên dịch hoặc đề nghị thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch trước khi mở phiên tòa, phiên họp phải được lập thành văn bản nêu rõ lý do của việc từ chối hoặc đề nghị thay đổi.
2. Việc từ chối giám định, phiên dịch hoặc đề nghị thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch tại phiên tòa, phiên họp phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa, phiên họp.

Section 938. Original section/article: 84. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định việc thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, phiên họp, việc thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch do Chánh án Tòa án quyết định.
2. Tại phiên tòa, phiên họp, việc thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch do Thẩm phán, Hội đồng xét xử, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự quyết định sau khi nghe ý kiến của người bị yêu cầu thay đổi. Hội đồng xét xử, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự thảo luận tại phòng nghị án và quyết định theo đa số.
Trường hợp phải thay đổi người giám định, người phiên dịch thì Thẩm phán, Hội đồng xét xử, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự ra quyết định hoãn phiên tòa, phiên họp. Việc trưng cầu người giám định khác hoặc thay người phiên dịch khác được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 939. Original section/article: 85. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người đại diện 1. Người đại diện trong tố tụng dân sự bao gồm người đại diện theo pháp luật và người đại diện theo ủy quyền. Người đại diện có thể là cá nhân hoặc pháp nhân theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Người đại diện theo pháp luật theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự là người đại diện theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự, trừ trường hợp bị hạn chế quyền đại diện theo quy định của pháp luật.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác cũng là người đại diện theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự của người được bảo vệ.
3. Tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động là người đại diện theo pháp luật cho tập thể người lao động khởi kiện vụ án lao động, tham gia tố tụng tại Tòa án khi quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của tập thể người lao động bị xâm phạm; tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động đại diện cho người lao động khởi kiện vụ án lao động, tham gia tố tụng khi được người lao động ủy quyền.
Trường hợp nhiều người lao động có cùng yêu cầu đối với người sử dụng lao động, trong cùng một doanh nghiệp, đơn vị thì họ được ủy quyền cho một đại diện của tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động thay mặt họ khởi kiện vụ án lao động, tham gia tố tụng tại Tòa án.
4. Người đại diện theo ủy quyền theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự là người đại diện theo ủy quyền trong tố tụng dân sự.
Đối với việc ly hôn, đương sự không được ủy quyền cho người khác thay mặt mình tham gia tố tụng. Trường hợp cha, mẹ, người thân thích khác yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết ly hôn theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 940. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Luật hôn nhân và gia đình thì họ là người đại diện.

Section 941. Original section/article: 86. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người đại diện 1. Người đại diện theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của đương sự trong phạm vi mà mình đại diện.
2. Người đại diện theo ủy quyền trong tố tụng dân sự thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng dân sự của đương sự theo nội dung văn bản ủy quyền.

Section 942. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những trường hợp không được làm người đại diện 1. Những người sau đây không được làm người đại diện theo pháp luật:
a) Nếu họ cũng là đương sự trong cùng một vụ việc với người được đại diện mà quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ đối lập với quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người được đại diện;
b) Nếu họ đang là người đại diện theo pháp luật trong tố tụng dân sự cho một đương sự khác mà quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự đó đối lập với quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người được đại diện trong cùng một vụ việc.
2. Quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này cũng được áp dụng đối với trường hợp đại diện theo ủy quyền trong tố tụng dân sự.
3. Cán bộ, công chức trong các cơ quan Tòa án, Kiểm sát, Công an không được làm người đại diện trong tố tụng dân sự, trừ trường hợp họ tham gia tố tụng với tư cách là người đại diện cho cơ quan của họ hoặc với tư cách là người đại diện theo pháp luật.

Section 943. Original section/article: 88. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chỉ định người đại diện trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Khi tiến hành tố tụng dân sự, nếu có đương sự là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi mà không có người đại diện hoặc người đại diện theo pháp luật của họ thuộc một trong các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1

Section 944. Original section/article: 87. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án phải chỉ định người đại diện để tham gia tố tụng.
2. Đối với vụ việc lao động mà có đương sự thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này hoặc người lao động là người chưa thành niên mà không có người đại diện và Tòa án cũng không chỉ định được người đại diện theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì Tòa án chỉ định tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động đại diện cho người lao động đó.

Section 945. Original section/article: 89. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chấm dứt đại diện trong tố tụng dân sự Người đại diện theo pháp luật, người đại diện theo ủy quyền trong tố tụng dân sự chấm dứt việc đại diện theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 946. Original section/article: 90. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của việc chấm dứt đại diện trong tố tụng dân sự 1. Trường hợp chấm dứt đại diện theo pháp luật mà người được đại diện đã thành niên hoặc đã khôi phục năng lực hành vi dân sự thì người đó tự mình tham gia tố tụng dân sự hoặc ủy quyền cho người khác tham gia tố tụng dân sự theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định.
2. Trường hợp chấm dứt đại diện theo ủy quyền thì đương sự hoặc người thừa kế của đương sự trực tiếp tham gia tố tụng hoặc ủy quyền cho người khác đại diện tham gia tố tụng theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định.
Chương VII CHỨNG MINH VÀ CHỨNG CỨ

Section 947. Original section/article: 91. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chứng minh 1. Đương sự có yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình phải thu thập, cung cấp, giao nộp cho Tòa án tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu đó là có căn cứ và hợp pháp, trừ các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người tiêu dùng khởi kiện không có nghĩa vụ chứng minh lỗi của tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh hàng hóa, dịch vụ. Tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh hàng hóa, dịch vụ bị kiện có nghĩa vụ chứng minh mình không có lỗi gây ra thiệt hại theo quy định của Luật bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng;
b) Đương sự là người lao động trong vụ án lao động mà không cung cấp, giao nộp được cho Tòa án tài liệu, chứng cứ vì lý do tài liệu, chứng cứ đó đang do người sử dụng lao động quản lý, lưu giữ thì người sử dụng lao động có trách nhiệm cung cấp, giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ đó cho Tòa án.
Người lao động khởi kiện vụ án đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động thuộc trường hợp người sử dụng lao động không được thực hiện quyền đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động hoặc trường hợp không được xử lý kỷ luật lao động đối với người lao động theo quy định của pháp luật về lao động thì nghĩa vụ chứng minh thuộc về người sử dụng lao động;
c) Các trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác về nghĩa vụ chứng minh.
2. Đương sự phản đối yêu cầu của người khác đối với mình phải thể hiện bằng văn bản và phải thu thập, cung cấp, giao nộp cho Tòa án tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh cho sự phản đối đó.
3. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện để bảo vệ lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước hoặc yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác phải thu thập, cung cấp, giao nộp cho Tòa án tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh cho việc khởi kiện, yêu cầu của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.
Tổ chức xã hội tham gia bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng không có nghĩa vụ chứng minh lỗi của tổ chức, cá nhân kinh doanh hàng hóa, dịch vụ theo quy định của Luật bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng.
4. Đương sự có nghĩa vụ đưa ra chứng cứ để chứng minh mà không đưa ra được chứng cứ hoặc không đưa ra đủ chứng cứ thì Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo những chứng cứ đã thu thập được có trong hồ sơ vụ việc.

Section 948. Original section/article: 92. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những tình tiết, sự kiện không phải chứng minh 1. Những tình tiết, sự kiện sau đây không phải chứng minh:
a) Những tình tiết, sự kiện rõ ràng mà mọi người đều biết và được Tòa án thừa nhận;
b) Những tình tiết, sự kiện đã được xác định trong bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật hoặc quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền đã có hiệu lực pháp luật;
c) Những tình tiết, sự kiện đã được ghi trong văn bản và được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp; trường hợp có dấu hiệu nghi ngờ tính khách quan của những tình tiết, sự kiện này hoặc tính khách quan của văn bản công chứng, chứng thực thì Thẩm phán có thể yêu cầu đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức công chứng, chứng thực xuất trình bản gốc, bản chính.
2. Một bên đương sự thừa nhận hoặc không phản đối những tình tiết, sự kiện, tài liệu, văn bản, kết luận của cơ quan chuyên môn mà bên đương sự kia đưa ra thì bên đương sự đó không phải chứng minh.
3. Đương sự có người đại diện tham gia tố tụng thì sự thừa nhận của người đại diện được coi là sự thừa nhận của đương sự nếu không vượt quá phạm vi đại diện.

Section 949. Original section/article: 93. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chứng cứ Chứng cứ trong vụ việc dân sự là những gì có thật được đương sự và cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác giao nộp, xuất trình cho Tòa án trong quá trình tố tụng hoặc do Tòa án thu thập được theo trình tự, thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định và được Tòa án sử dụng làm căn cứ để xác định các tình
tiết khách quan của vụ án cũng như xác định yêu cầu hay sự phản đối của đương sự là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 950. Original section/article: 94. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguồn chứng cứ Chứng cứ được thu thập từ các nguồn sau đây:
1. Tài liệu đọc được, nghe được, nhìn được, dữ liệu điện tử.
2. Vật chứng.
3. Lời khai của đương sự.
4. Lời khai của người làm chứng.
5. Kết luận giám định.
6. Biên bản ghi kết quả thẩm định tại chỗ.
7. Kết quả định giá tài sản, thẩm định giá tài sản.
8. Văn bản ghi nhận sự kiện, hành vi pháp lý do người có chức năng lập.
9. Văn bản công chứng, chứng thực.
10. Các nguồn khác mà pháp luật có quy định.

Section 951. Original section/article: 95. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xác định chứng cứ 1. Tài liệu đọc được nội dung được coi là chứng cứ nếu là bản chính hoặc bản sao có công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp hoặc do cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền cung cấp, xác nhận.
2. Tài liệu nghe được, nhìn được được coi là chứng cứ nếu được xuất trình kèm theo văn bản trình bày của người có tài liệu đó về xuất xứ của tài liệu nếu họ tự thu âm, thu hình hoặc văn bản có xác nhận của người đã cung cấp cho người xuất trình về xuất xứ của tài liệu đó hoặc văn bản về sự việc liên quan tới việc thu âm, thu hình đó.
3. Thông điệp dữ liệu điện tử được thể hiện dưới hình thức trao đổi dữ liệu điện tử, chứng từ điện tử, thư điện tử, điện tín, điện báo, fax và các hình thức tương tự khác theo quy định của pháp luật về giao dịch điện tử.
4. Vật chứng là chứng cứ phải là hiện vật gốc liên quan đến vụ việc.
5. Lời khai của đương sự, lời khai của người làm chứng được coi là chứng cứ nếu được ghi bằng văn bản, băng ghi âm, đĩa ghi âm, băng ghi hình, đĩa ghi hình, thiết bị khác chứa âm thanh, hình ảnh theo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này hoặc khai bằng lời tại phiên tòa.
6. Kết luận giám định được coi là chứng cứ nếu việc giám định đó được tiến hành theo đúng thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.
7. Biên bản ghi kết quả thẩm định tại chỗ được coi là chứng cứ nếu việc thẩm định được tiến hành theo đúng thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.
8. Kết quả định giá tài sản, kết quả thẩm định giá tài sản được coi là chứng cứ nếu việc định giá, thẩm định giá được tiến hành theo đúng thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.
9. Văn bản ghi nhận sự kiện, hành vi pháp lý do người có chức năng lập tại chỗ được coi là chứng cứ nếu việc lập văn bản ghi nhận sự kiện, hành vi pháp lý được tiến hành theo đúng thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.
10. Văn bản công chứng, chứng thực được coi là chứng cứ nếu việc công chứng, chứng thực được thực hiện theo đúng thủ tục do pháp luật quy định.
11. Các nguồn khác mà pháp luật có quy định được xác định là chứng cứ theo điều kiện, thủ tục mà pháp luật quy định.

Section 952. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ 1. Trong quá trình Tòa án giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, đương sự có quyền và nghĩa vụ giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án. Trường hợp tài liệu, chứng cứ đã được giao nộp chưa bảo đảm đủ cơ sở để giải quyết vụ việc thì Thẩm phán yêu cầu đương sự giao nộp bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ. Nếu đương sự không giao nộp hoặc giao nộp không đầy đủ tài liệu, chứng cứ do Tòa án yêu cầu mà không có lý do chính đáng thì Tòa án căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ mà đương sự đã giao nộp và Tòa án đã thu thập theo quy định tại

Section 953. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự.
2. Việc đương sự giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án phải được lập biên bản. Trong biên bản phải ghi rõ tên gọi, hình thức, nội dung, đặc điểm của tài liệu, chứng cứ; số bản, số trang của chứng cứ và thời gian nhận; chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người giao nộp, chữ ký của người nhận và dấu của Tòa án. Biên bản phải lập thành hai bản, một bản lưu vào hồ sơ vụ việc dân sự và một bản giao cho đương sự nộp chứng cứ.
3. Đương sự giao nộp cho Tòa án tài liệu, chứng cứ bằng tiếng dân tộc thiểu số, tiếng nước ngoài phải kèm theo bản dịch sang tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.
4. Thời hạn giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ do Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ việc ấn định nhưng không được vượt quá thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử theo thủ tục sơ thẩm, thời hạn chuẩn bị giải quyết việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp sau khi có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục sơ thẩm, quyết định mở phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự, đương sự mới cung cấp, giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ mà Tòa án đã yêu cầu giao nộp nhưng đương sự không giao nộp được vì có lý do chính đáng thì đương sự phải chứng minh lý do của việc chậm giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ đó. Đối với tài liệu, chứng cứ mà trước đó Tòa án không yêu cầu đương sự giao nộp hoặc tài liệu, chứng cứ mà đương sự không thể biết được trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc theo thủ tục sơ thẩm thì đương sự có quyền giao nộp, trình bày tại phiên tòa sơ thẩm, phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự hoặc các giai đoạn tố tụng tiếp theo của việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự.
5. Khi đương sự giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án thì họ phải sao gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ đó cho đương sự khác hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự khác; đối với tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại khoản 2

Section 954. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc tài liệu, chứng cứ không thể sao gửi được thì phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho đương sự khác hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự khác.

Section 955. Original section/article: 97. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền tự mình thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ bằng những biện pháp sau đây:
a) Thu thập tài liệu đọc được, nghe được, nhìn được; thông điệp dữ liệu điện tử;
b) Thu thập vật chứng;
c) Xác định người làm chứng và lấy xác nhận của người làm chứng;
d) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cho sao chép hoặc cung cấp những tài liệu có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ việc mà cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó đang lưu giữ, quản lý;
đ) Yêu cầu Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã chứng thực chữ ký của người làm chứng;
e) Yêu cầu Tòa án thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ nếu đương sự không thể thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ;
g) Yêu cầu Tòa án ra quyết định trưng cầu giám định, định giá tài sản;
h) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân thực hiện công việc khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trong các trường hợp do Bộ luật này quy định, Tòa án có thể tiến hành một hoặc một số biện pháp sau đây để thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ:
a) Lấy lời khai của đương sự, người làm chứng;
b) Đối chất giữa các đương sự với nhau, giữa đương sự với người làm chứng;
c) Trưng cầu giám định;
d) Định giá tài sản;
đ) Xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ;
e) Ủy thác thu thập, xác minh tài liệu, chứng cứ;
g) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu đọc được, nghe được, nhìn được hoặc hiện vật khác liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự;
h) Xác minh sự có mặt hoặc vắng mặt của đương sự tại nơi cư trú;
i) Các biện pháp khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Khi tiến hành các biện pháp quy định tại các điểm c, d, đ, e và g khoản 2 Điều này, Tòa án phải ra quyết định, trong đó nêu rõ lý do và yêu cầu của Tòa án.
4. Trong giai đoạn giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm, Thẩm tra viên có thể tiến hành các biện pháp thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại các điểm a, g và h khoản 2 Điều này.
Khi Thẩm tra viên tiến hành biện pháp quy định tại điểm g khoản 2 Điều này, Tòa án phải ra quyết định, trong đó nêu rõ lý do và yêu cầu của Tòa án.
5. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày Tòa án thu thập được tài liệu, chứng cứ, Tòa án phải thông báo về tài liệu, chứng cứ đó cho đương sự để họ thực hiện quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình.
6. Viện kiểm sát thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ để bảo đảm cho việc thực hiện thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm.

Section 956. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Lấy lời khai của đương sự 1. Thẩm phán chỉ tiến hành lấy lời khai của đương sự khi đương sự chưa có bản khai hoặc nội dung bản khai chưa đầy đủ, rõ ràng. Đương sự phải tự viết bản khai và ký tên của mình. Trường hợp đương sự không thể tự viết được thì Thẩm phán lấy lời khai của đương sự. Việc lấy lời khai của đương sự chỉ tập trung vào những tình tiết mà đương sự khai chưa đầy đủ, rõ ràng. Thẩm phán tự mình hoặc Thư ký Tòa án ghi lại lời khai của đương sự vào biên bản. Thẩm phán lấy lời khai của đương sự tại trụ sở Tòa án; trường hợp cần thiết có thể lấy lời khai của đương sự ngoài trụ sở Tòa án.
2. Biên bản ghi lời khai của đương sự phải được người khai tự đọc lại hay nghe đọc lại và ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ. Đương sự có quyền yêu cầu ghi những sửa đổi, bổ sung vào biên bản ghi lời khai và ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ xác nhận. Biên bản phải có chữ ký của người lấy lời khai, người ghi biên bản và đóng dấu của Tòa án; nếu biên bản được ghi thành nhiều trang rời nhau thì phải ký vào từng trang và đóng dấu giáp lai. Trường hợp biên bản ghi lời khai của đương sự được lập ngoài trụ sở Tòa án thì phải có người làm chứng hoặc xác nhận của Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức nơi lập biên bản.
3. Việc lấy lời khai của đương sự thuộc một trong các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 957. Original section/article: 69. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này phải được tiến hành với sự có mặt của người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự đó.

Section 958. Original section/article: 99. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Lấy lời khai của người làm chứng 1. Theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán tiến hành lấy lời khai của người làm chứng tại trụ sở Tòa án hoặc ngoài trụ sở Tòa án.
Trước khi lấy lời khai của người làm chứng, Thẩm phán phải giải thích quyền, nghĩa vụ của người làm chứng và yêu cầu người làm chứng cam đoan về lời khai của mình.
2. Thủ tục lấy lời khai của người làm chứng được tiến hành như thủ tục lấy lời khai của đương sự quy định tại khoản 2

Section 959. Original section/article: 98. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Việc lấy lời khai của người làm chứng chưa đủ mười tám tuổi, người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi phải được tiến hành với sự có mặt của người đại diện theo pháp luật hoặc người đang thực hiện việc quản lý, trông nom người đó.

Section 960. Original section/article: 100. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đối chất 1. Theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy có mâu thuẫn trong lời khai của các đương sự, người làm chứng, Thẩm phán tiến hành đối chất giữa các đương sự với nhau, giữa đương sự với người làm chứng hoặc giữa những người làm chứng với nhau.
2. Việc đối chất phải được lập thành biên bản, có chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của những người tham gia đối chất.

Section 961. Original section/article: 101. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ 1. Theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán tiến hành việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ với sự có mặt của đại diện Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức nơi có đối tượng cần xem xét, thẩm định và phải báo trước việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ để đương sự biết và chứng kiến việc xem xét, thẩm định đó.
2. Việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ phải được ghi thành biên bản. Biên bản phải ghi rõ kết quả xem xét, thẩm định, mô tả rõ hiện trường, có chữ ký của người xem xét, thẩm định và chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của đương sự nếu họ có mặt, của đại diện Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức nơi có đối tượng được xem xét, thẩm định và những người khác được mời tham gia việc xem xét, thẩm định. Sau khi lập xong biên bản, người xem xét, thẩm định phải yêu cầu đại diện Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức nơi có đối tượng được xem xét, thẩm định ký tên và đóng dấu xác nhận.
3. Nghiêm cấm mọi hành vi cản trở việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
4. Thẩm phán có quyền đề nghị Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã, Công an xã, phường, thị trấn nơi có đối tượng được xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ hỗ trợ trong trường hợp có hành vi cản trở việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.

Section 962. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trưng cầu giám định, yêu cầu giám định 1. Đương sự có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án trưng cầu giám định hoặc tự mình yêu cầu giám định sau khi đã đề nghị Tòa án trưng cầu giám định nhưng Tòa án từ chối yêu cầu của đương sự. Quyền tự yêu cầu giám định được thực hiện trước khi Tòa án ra quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục sơ thẩm, quyết định mở phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự.
2. Theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán ra quyết định trưng cầu giám định. Trong quyết định trưng cầu giám định phải ghi rõ tên, địa chỉ của người giám định, đối tượng cần giám định, vấn đề cần giám định, các yêu cầu cụ thể cần có kết luận của người giám định.
3. Trường hợp xét thấy kết luận giám định chưa đầy đủ, rõ ràng hoặc có vi phạm pháp luật thì theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Tòa án yêu cầu người giám định giải thích kết luận giám định, triệu tập người giám định đến phiên tòa, phiên họp để trực tiếp trình bày về các nội dung cần thiết.
4. Theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Tòa án ra quyết định trưng cầu giám định bổ sung trong trường hợp nội dung kết luận giám định chưa rõ, chưa đầy đủ hoặc khi phát sinh vấn đề mới liên quan đến tình tiết của vụ việc đã được kết luận giám định trước đó.
5. Việc giám định lại được thực hiện trong trường hợp có căn cứ cho rằng kết luận giám định lần đầu không chính xác, có vi phạm pháp luật hoặc trong trường hợp đặc biệt theo quyết định của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao, Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao theo quy định của Luật giám định tư pháp.

Section 963. Original section/article: 103. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trưng cầu giám định chứng cứ bị tố cáo là giả mạo 1. Trường hợp chứng cứ bị tố cáo là giả mạo thì người đưa ra chứng cứ đó có quyền rút lại; nếu không rút lại thì người tố cáo có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án hoặc Tòa án có quyền quyết định trưng cầu giám định theo quy định tại

Section 964. Original section/article: 102. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp việc giả mạo chứng cứ có dấu hiệu tội phạm thì Tòa án chuyển tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan cho Cơ quan điều tra có thẩm quyền xem xét theo quy định của pháp luật tố tụng hình sự.
3. Người đưa ra chứng cứ được kết luận là giả mạo phải bồi thường thiệt hại nếu việc giả mạo chứng cứ đó gây thiệt hại cho người khác và phải chịu chi phí giám định nếu Tòa án quyết định trưng cầu giám định.

Section 965. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Định giá tài sản, thẩm định giá tài sản 1. Đương sự có quyền cung cấp giá tài sản đang tranh chấp; thỏa thuận về giá tài sản đang tranh chấp.
2. Các đương sự có quyền thỏa thuận lựa chọn tổ chức thẩm định giá tài sản để thực hiện việc thẩm định giá tài sản và cung cấp kết quả thẩm định giá cho Tòa án.
Việc thẩm định giá tài sản được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về thẩm định giá tài sản.
3. Tòa án ra quyết định định giá tài sản và thành lập Hội đồng định giá khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Theo yêu cầu của một hoặc các bên đương sự;
b) Các đương sự không thỏa thuận lựa chọn tổ chức thẩm định giá tài sản hoặc đưa ra giá tài sản khác nhau hoặc không thỏa thuận được giá tài sản;
c) Các bên thỏa thuận với nhau hoặc với tổ chức thẩm định giá tài sản theo mức giá thấp so với giá thị trường nơi có tài sản định giá tại thời điểm định giá nhằm trốn tránh nghĩa vụ với Nhà nước hoặc người thứ ba hoặc có căn cứ cho thấy tổ chức thẩm định giá tài sản đã vi phạm pháp luật khi thẩm định giá.
4. Trình tự, thủ tục thành lập Hội đồng định giá, định giá tài sản:
a) Hội đồng định giá do Tòa án thành lập gồm Chủ tịch Hội đồng định giá là đại diện cơ quan tài chính và thành viên là đại diện các cơ quan chuyên môn có liên quan. Người đã tiến hành tố tụng trong vụ án đó, người quy định tại

Section 966. Original section/article: 52. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này không được tham gia Hội đồng định giá.
Hội đồng định giá chỉ tiến hành định giá khi có mặt đầy đủ các thành viên của Hội đồng. Trong trường hợp cần thiết, đại diện Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi có tài sản định giá được mời chứng kiến việc định giá. Các đương sự được thông báo trước về thời gian, địa điểm tiến hành định giá, có quyền tham dự và phát biểu ý kiến về việc định giá. Quyền quyết định về giá đối với tài sản định giá thuộc Hội đồng định giá;
b) Cơ quan tài chính và các cơ quan chuyên môn có liên quan có trách nhiệm cử người tham gia Hội đồng định giá và tạo điều kiện để họ làm nhiệm vụ. Người được cử làm thành viên Hội đồng định giá có trách nhiệm tham gia đầy đủ vào việc định giá. Trường hợp cơ quan tài chính, các cơ quan chuyên môn không cử người tham gia Hội đồng định giá thì Tòa án yêu cầu cơ quan quản lý có thẩm quyền trực tiếp chỉ đạo cơ quan tài chính, cơ quan chuyên môn thực hiện yêu cầu của Tòa án. Người được cử tham gia Hội đồng định giá không tham gia mà không có lý do chính đáng thì Tòa án yêu cầu lãnh đạo cơ quan đã cử người tham gia Hội đồng định giá xem xét trách nhiệm, cử người khác thay thế và thông báo cho Tòa án biết để tiếp tục tiến hành định giá;
c) Việc định giá phải được lập biên bản, trong đó ghi rõ ý kiến của từng thành viên, đương sự nếu họ tham dự. Quyết định của Hội đồng định giá phải được quá nửa tổng số thành viên biểu quyết tán thành. Các thành viên Hội đồng định giá, đương sự, người chứng kiến ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ vào biên bản.
5. Việc định giá lại tài sản được thực hiện trong trường hợp có căn cứ cho rằng kết quả định giá lần đầu không chính xác hoặc không phù hợp với giá thị trường nơi có tài sản định giá tại thời điểm giải quyết vụ án dân sự.

Section 967. Original section/article: 105. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ủy thác thu thập chứng cứ 1. Trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc dân sự, Tòa án có thể ra quyết định ủy thác để Tòa án khác hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền quy định tại khoản 4 Điều này lấy lời khai của đương sự, người làm chứng, thẩm định tại chỗ, tiến hành định giá tài sản hoặc các biện pháp khác để thu thập chứng cứ, xác minh các tình tiết của vụ việc dân sự.
2. Trong quyết định ủy thác phải ghi rõ tên, địa chỉ của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, quan hệ tranh chấp và những công việc cụ thể ủy thác để thu thập chứng cứ.
3. Tòa án nhận được quyết định ủy thác có trách nhiệm thực hiện công việc cụ thể được ủy thác trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định ủy thác và thông báo kết quả bằng văn bản cho Tòa án đã ra quyết định ủy thác; trường hợp không thực hiện được việc ủy thác thì phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho Tòa án đã ra quyết định ủy thác.
4. Trường hợp việc thu thập chứng cứ phải tiến hành ở nước ngoài thì Tòa án làm thủ tục ủy thác thông qua cơ quan có thẩm quyền của Việt Nam hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế có quy định về vấn đề này.
5. Trường hợp không thực hiện được việc ủy thác theo quy định tại khoản 3 và khoản 4 Điều này hoặc đã thực hiện việc ủy thác nhưng không nhận được kết quả trả lời thì Tòa án giải quyết vụ án trên cơ sở chứng cứ đã có trong hồ sơ vụ việc dân sự.

Section 968. Original section/article: 106. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ 1. Đương sự có quyền yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ. Khi yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ, đương sự phải làm văn bản yêu cầu ghi rõ tài liệu, chứng cứ cần cung cấp; lý do cung cấp; họ, tên, địa chỉ của cá nhân, tên, địa chỉ của cơ quan, tổ chức đang quản lý, lưu giữ tài liệu, chứng cứ cần cung cấp.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có trách nhiệm cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho đương sự trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu; trường hợp không cung cấp được thì phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho người có yêu cầu.
2. Trường hợp đương sự đã áp dụng các biện pháp cần thiết để thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ mà vẫn không thể tự mình thu thập được thì có thể đề nghị Tòa án ra quyết định yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đang lưu giữ, quản lý tài liệu, chứng cứ cung cấp cho mình hoặc đề nghị Tòa án tiến hành thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ nhằm bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự đúng đắn.
Đương sự yêu cầu Tòa án thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ phải làm đơn ghi rõ vấn đề cần chứng minh; tài liệu, chứng cứ cần thu thập; lý do mình không tự thu thập được; họ, tên, địa chỉ của cá nhân, tên, địa chỉ của cơ quan, tổ chức đang quản lý, lưu giữ tài liệu, chứng cứ cần thu thập.
3. Trường hợp có yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Tòa án ra quyết định yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đang quản lý, lưu giữ cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đang quản lý, lưu giữ tài liệu, chứng cứ có trách nhiệm cung cấp đầy đủ tài liệu, chứng cứ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án trong thời hạn
15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu; hết thời hạn này mà không cung cấp đầy đủ tài liệu, chứng cứ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án thì cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân được yêu cầu phải trả lời bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân không thực hiện yêu cầu của Tòa án mà không có lý do chính đáng thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm có thể bị xử phạt hành chính hoặc truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật. Việc xử phạt hành chính hoặc truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật đối với cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân không phải là lý do miễn nghĩa vụ cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án.
4. Trường hợp Viện kiểm sát có yêu cầu cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ thì cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có trách nhiệm thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này.

Section 969. Original section/article: 107. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo quản tài liệu, chứng cứ 
1. Tài liệu, chứng cứ đã được giao nộp tại Tòa án thì việc bảo quản tài liệu, chứng cứ đó do Tòa án chịu trách nhiệm.
2. Tài liệu, chứng cứ không thể giao nộp được tại Tòa án thì người đang lưu giữ tài liệu, chứng cứ đó có trách nhiệm bảo quản.
3. Trường hợp cần giao tài liệu, chứng cứ cho người thứ ba bảo quản thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định và lập biên bản giao cho người đó bảo quản. Người nhận bảo quản phải ký tên vào biên bản, được hưởng thù lao và phải chịu trách nhiệm về việc bảo quản tài liệu, chứng cứ theo quy định của pháp luật.
4. Nghiêm cấm việc hủy hoại tài liệu, chứng cứ.

Section 970. Original section/article: 108. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đánh giá chứng cứ 1. Việc đánh giá chứng cứ phải khách quan, toàn diện, đầy đủ và chính xác.
2. Tòa án phải đánh giá từng chứng cứ, sự liên quan giữa các chứng cứ và khẳng định tính hợp pháp, tính liên quan, giá trị chứng minh của từng chứng cứ.

Section 971. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công bố và sử dụng tài liệu, chứng cứ 1. Mọi chứng cứ được công bố và sử dụng công khai như nhau, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Tòa án không công khai nội dung tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan đến bí mật nhà nước, thuần phong mỹ tục của dân tộc, bí mật nghề nghiệp, bí mật kinh doanh, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình theo yêu cầu chính đáng của đương sự nhưng phải thông báo cho đương sự biết những tài liệu, chứng cứ không được công khai.
3. Người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng phải giữ bí mật tài liệu, chứng cứ thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 972. Original section/article: 110. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ chứng cứ 1. Trường hợp chứng cứ đang bị tiêu hủy, có nguy cơ bị tiêu hủy hoặc sau này khó có thể thu thập được thì đương sự có quyền đề nghị Tòa án quyết định áp dụng biện pháp cần thiết để bảo toàn chứng cứ. Đề nghị của đương sự phải thể hiện bằng văn bản. Tòa án có thể quyết định áp dụng một hoặc một số trong các biện pháp niêm phong, thu giữ, chụp ảnh, ghi âm, ghi hình, phục chế, khám nghiệm, lập biên bản và các biện pháp khác.
2. Trường hợp người làm chứng bị lừa dối, đe dọa, cưỡng ép hoặc mua chuộc để không cung cấp chứng cứ hoặc cung cấp chứng cứ sai sự thật thì Tòa án có quyền quyết định buộc người có hành vi lừa dối, đe dọa, cưỡng ép hoặc mua chuộc phải chấm dứt hành vi đó. Trường hợp hành vi đó có dấu hiệu tội phạm thì Tòa án yêu cầu Viện kiểm sát xem xét về trách nhiệm hình sự.
Chương VIII CÁC BIỆN PHÁP KHẨN CẤP TẠM THỜI

Section 973. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án, đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện vụ án quy định tại

Section 974. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ án đó áp dụng một hoặc nhiều biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại

Section 975. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này để tạm thời giải quyết yêu cầu cấp bách của đương sự, bảo vệ tính
mạng, sức khỏe, tài sản, thu thập chứng cứ, bảo vệ chứng cứ, bảo toàn tình trạng hiện có tránh gây thiệt hại không thể khắc phục được, đảm bảo cho việc giải quyết vụ án hoặc việc thi hành án.
2. Trong trường hợp do tình thế khẩn cấp, cần phải bảo vệ ngay chứng cứ, ngăn chặn hậu quả nghiêm trọng có thể xảy ra thì cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án có thẩm quyền ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại

Section 976. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này đồng thời với việc nộp đơn khởi kiện cho Tòa án đó.
3. Tòa án chỉ tự mình ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời trong trường hợp quy định tại

Section 977. Original section/article: 112. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, việc áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời do một Thẩm phán xem xét, quyết định.
2. Tại phiên tòa, việc áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời do Hội đồng xét xử xem xét, quyết định.

Section 978. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm do áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời phải chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về yêu cầu của mình; trường hợp yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng mà gây thiệt hại cho người bị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời hoặc cho người thứ ba thì phải bồi thường.
2. Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng mà gây thiệt hại cho người bị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời hoặc cho người thứ ba thì Tòa án phải bồi thường nếu thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Tòa án tự mình áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
b) Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác với biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời mà cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân yêu cầu;
c) Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời vượt quá yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân;
d) Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng thời hạn theo quy định của pháp luật hoặc không áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời mà không có lý do chính đáng.
3. Việc bồi thường thiệt hại quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật trách nhiệm bồi thường của Nhà nước.

Section 979. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Các biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Giao người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi cho cá nhân hoặc tổ chức trông nom, nuôi dưỡng, chăm sóc, giáo dục.
2. Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng.
3. Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại do tính mạng, sức khoẻ bị xâm phạm.
4. Buộc người sử dụng lao động tạm ứng tiền lương, tiền bảo hiểm y tế, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo hiểm thất nghiệp, chi phí cứu chữa tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp, tiền bồi thường, trợ cấp tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp cho người lao động.
5. Tạm đình chỉ thi hành quyết định đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động, quyết định sa thải người lao động.
6. Kê biên tài sản đang tranh chấp.
7. Cấm chuyển dịch quyền về tài sản đối với tài sản đang tranh chấp.
8. Cấm thay đổi hiện trạng tài sản đang tranh chấp.
9. Cho thu hoạch, cho bán hoa màu hoặc sản phẩm, hàng hóa khác.
10. Phong tỏa tài khoản tại ngân hàng, tổ chức tín dụng khác, kho bạc nhà nước; phong tỏa tài sản ở nơi gửi giữ.
11. Phong tỏa tài sản của người có nghĩa vụ.
12. Cấm hoặc buộc thực hiện hành vi nhất định.
13. Cấm xuất cảnh đối với người có nghĩa vụ.
14. Cấm tiếp xúc với nạn nhân bạo lực gia đình.
15. Tạm dừng việc đóng thầu và các hoạt động có liên quan đến việc đấu thầu.
16. Bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển để bảo đảm giải quyết vụ án.
17. Các biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác mà luật có quy định.

Section 980. Original section/article: 115. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giao người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi cho cá nhân hoặc tổ chức trông nom, nuôi dưỡng, chăm sóc, giáo dục Giao người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi cho cá nhân hoặc tổ chức trông nom, nuôi dưỡng, chăm sóc, giáo dục được áp dụng nếu việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến những người này mà họ chưa có người giám hộ.
Việc giao người chưa thành niên từ đủ bảy tuổi trở lên thì phải xem xét nguyện vọng của người đó.

Section 981. Original section/article: 116. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng được áp dụng nếu việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến yêu cầu cấp dưỡng và xét thấy yêu cầu đó là có căn cứ và nếu không thực hiện trước ngay một phần nghĩa vụ cấp dưỡng sẽ ảnh hưởng đến sức khoẻ, đời sống của người được cấp dưỡng.

Section 982. Original section/article: 117. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại do tính mạng, sức khoẻ bị xâm phạm Buộc thực hiện trước một phần nghĩa vụ bồi thường thiệt hại do tính mạng, sức khoẻ bị xâm phạm được áp dụng nếu việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến yêu cầu đòi bồi thường thiệt hại do tính mạng, sức khoẻ bị xâm phạm.

Section 983. Original section/article: 118. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Buộc người sử dụng lao động tạm ứng tiền lương, tiền bảo hiểm y tế, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo hiểm thất nghiệp, chi phí cứu chữa tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp, tiền bồi thường, trợ cấp tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp cho người lao động Buộc người sử dụng lao động tạm ứng tiền lương, tiền bảo hiểm y tế, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo hiểm thất nghiệp, chi phí cứu chữa tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp, tiền bồi thường, trợ cấp tai nạn lao động hoặc bệnh nghề nghiệp cho người lao động được áp dụng để bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người lao động về tiền lương, tiền bảo hiểm, tiền bồi thường, tiền trợ cấp, chăm sóc sức khỏe theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 984. Original section/article: 119. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm đình chỉ thi hành quyết định đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động, quyết định sa thải người lao động Tạm đình chỉ thi hành quyết định đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động, quyết định sa thải người lao động được áp dụng nếu việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động, sa thải người lao động thuộc trường hợp người sử dụng lao động không được thực hiện quyền đơn phương chấm dứt hợp đồng lao động hoặc không được xử lý kỷ luật sa thải đối với người lao động theo quy định của pháp luật về lao động.

Section 985. Original section/article: 120. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kê biên tài sản đang tranh chấp 1. Kê biên tài sản đang tranh chấp được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người giữ tài sản đang tranh chấp có hành vi tẩu tán, hủy hoại tài sản.
2. Tài sản bị kê biên có thể được thu giữ, bảo quản tại cơ quan thi hành án dân sự hoặc lập biên bản giao cho một bên đương sự hoặc người thứ ba quản lý cho đến khi có quyết định của Tòa án.

Section 986. Original section/article: 121. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấm chuyển dịch quyền về tài sản đối với tài sản đang tranh chấp Cấm chuyển dịch quyền về tài sản đối với tài sản đang tranh chấp được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người đang chiếm hữu hoặc giữ tài sản đang tranh chấp có hành vi chuyển dịch quyền về tài sản đối với tài sản đang tranh chấp cho người khác.

Section 987. Original section/article: 122. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấm thay đổi hiện trạng tài sản đang tranh chấp Cấm thay đổi hiện trạng tài sản đang tranh chấp được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người đang chiếm hữu hoặc giữ tài sản đang tranh chấp có hành vi tháo gỡ, lắp ghép, xây dựng thêm hoặc có hành vi khác làm thay đổi hiện trạng tài sản đó.

Section 988. Original section/article: 123. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cho thu hoạch, cho bán hoa màu hoặc sản phẩm, hàng hóa khác Cho thu hoạch, cho bán hoa màu hoặc sản phẩm, hàng hóa khác được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có tài sản đang tranh chấp hoặc liên quan đến tranh chấp mà có hoa màu hoặc sản phẩm, hàng hóa khác ở thời kỳ thu hoạch hoặc không thể bảo quản được lâu dài.

Section 989. Original section/article: 124. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phong tỏa tài khoản tại ngân hàng, tổ chức tín dụng khác, kho bạc nhà nước Phong tỏa tài khoản tại ngân hàng, tổ chức tín dụng khác, kho bạc nhà nước được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người có nghĩa vụ có tài khoản tại ngân hàng, tổ chức tín dụng khác, kho bạc nhà nước và việc áp dụng biện pháp này là cần thiết để bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ án hoặc việc thi hành án.

Section 990. Original section/article: 125. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phong tỏa tài sản ở nơi gửi giữ 
Phong tỏa tài sản ở nơi gửi giữ được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người có nghĩa vụ có tài sản đang gửi giữ và việc áp dụng biện pháp này là cần thiết để bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ án hoặc việc thi hành án.

Section 991. Original section/article: 126. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phong tỏa tài sản của người có nghĩa vụ Phong tỏa tài sản của người có nghĩa vụ được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy người có nghĩa vụ có tài sản và việc áp dụng biện pháp này là cần thiết để bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ án hoặc việc thi hành án.

Section 992. Original section/article: 127. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấm hoặc buộc thực hiện hành vi nhất định Cấm hoặc buộc thực hiện hành vi nhất định được áp dụng nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án có căn cứ cho thấy đương sự hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác thực hiện hoặc không thực hiện một hoặc một số hành vi nhất định làm ảnh hưởng đến việc giải quyết vụ án, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác có liên quan trong vụ án đang được Tòa án giải quyết.

Section 993. Original section/article: 128. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấm xuất cảnh đối với người có nghĩa vụ Cấm xuất cảnh đối với người có nghĩa vụ được áp dụng nếu có căn cứ cho thấy việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến nghĩa vụ của họ đối với Nhà nước, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác và việc xuất cảnh của họ ảnh hưởng đến việc giải quyết vụ án, lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác hoặc để bảo đảm việc thi hành án.

Section 994. Original section/article: 129. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấm tiếp xúc với nạn nhân bạo lực gia đình Cấm người có hành vi bạo lực gia đình tiếp xúc với nạn nhân bạo lực gia đình được áp dụng nếu biện pháp đó là cần thiết để bảo vệ tính mạng, sức khỏe, danh dự của nạn nhân bạo lực gia đình theo quy định của Luật phòng chống bạo lực gia đình.

Section 995. Original section/article: 130. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm dừng việc đóng thầu và các hoạt động có liên quan đến việc đấu thầu Tạm dừng việc đóng thầu, phê duyệt danh sách ngắn, kết quả lựa chọn nhà thầu, nhà đầu tư, ký kết hợp đồng, thực hiện hợp đồng được áp dụng nếu quá trình giải quyết vụ án cho thấy việc áp dụng biện pháp này là cần thiết để bảo đảm cho việc giải quyết vụ án theo đúng quy định của pháp luật.

Section 996. Original section/article: 131. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển để bảo đảm giải quyết vụ án 1. Tòa án quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời bắt giữ tàu bay để bảo đảm giải quyết vụ án dân sự mà vụ án đó do chủ sở hữu tàu bay, chủ nợ trong trường hợp tàu bay là tài sản bảo đảm, người bị thiệt hại do tàu bay đang bay gây ra hoặc người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan đối với tàu bay khởi kiện theo quy định của pháp luật về hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam.
2. Tòa án quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời bắt giữ tàu biển trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Tàu biển bị yêu cầu bắt giữ để bảo đảm việc giải quyết khiếu nại hàng hải mà người yêu cầu bắt giữ tàu biển đã khởi kiện vụ án dân sự tại Tòa án;
b) Chủ tàu là người có nghĩa vụ về tài sản trong vụ án đang giải quyết và vẫn là chủ tàu tại thời điểm áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời bắt giữ tàu biển;
c) Người thuê tàu trần, người thuê tàu định hạn, người thuê tàu chuyến hoặc người khai thác tàu là người có nghĩa vụ về tài sản trong vụ án dân sự phát sinh từ khiếu nại hàng hải theo quy định của Bộ luật hàng hải Việt Nam và vẫn là người thuê tàu trần, người thuê tàu định hạn, người thuê
tàu chuyến, người khai thác tàu hoặc là chủ tàu tại thời điểm áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời bắt giữ tàu biển;
d) Tranh chấp đang được giải quyết trong vụ án phát sinh trên cơ sở của việc thế chấp tàu biển đó;
đ) Tranh chấp đang được giải quyết trong vụ án liên quan đến quyền sở hữu hoặc quyền chiếm hữu tàu biển đó.
3. Trình tự, thủ tục bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển được áp dụng theo quy định của pháp luật về bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển.

Section 997. Original section/article: 132. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Các biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác Ngoài các biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại các khoản từ khoản 1 đến khoản 16

Section 998. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án có trách nhiệm giải quyết yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác do luật khác quy định.

Section 999. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời phải làm đơn gửi đến Tòa án có thẩm quyền. Đơn yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm đơn;
b) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
c) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người bị yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
d) Tóm tắt nội dung tranh chấp hoặc hành vi xâm phạm quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình;
đ) Lý do cần phải áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
e) Biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời cần được áp dụng và các yêu cầu cụ thể.
Tùy theo yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời mà người yêu cầu phải cung cấp cho Tòa án chứng cứ để chứng minh cho sự cần thiết phải áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời đó.
2. Yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1000. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này được giải quyết như sau:
a) Trường hợp Tòa án nhận đơn yêu cầu trước khi mở phiên tòa thì Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án phải xem xét, giải quyết. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận đơn, nếu người yêu cầu không phải thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm hoặc ngay sau khi người đó thực hiện xong biện pháp bảo đảm quy định tại

Section 1001. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Thẩm phán phải ra ngay quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời; nếu không chấp nhận yêu cầu thì Thẩm phán phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho người yêu cầu;
b) Trường hợp Hội đồng xét xử nhận đơn yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời tại phiên tòa thì Hội đồng xét xử xem xét, thảo luận, giải quyết tại phòng xử án. Nếu chấp nhận thì Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời ngay hoặc sau khi người yêu cầu đã thực hiện xong biện pháp bảo đảm quy định tại

Section 1002. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Việc thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm được bắt đầu từ thời điểm Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định buộc thực hiện biện pháp
bảo đảm, nhưng người yêu cầu phải xuất trình chứng cứ về việc đã thực hiện xong biện pháp bảo đảm trước khi Hội đồng xét xử vào phòng nghị án; nếu không chấp nhận yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời thì Hội đồng xét xử phải thông báo ngay tại phòng xử án và ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa.
3. Đối với trường hợp yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1003. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì sau khi nhận được đơn yêu cầu cùng với đơn khởi kiện và chứng cứ kèm theo, Chánh án Tòa án phân công ngay một Thẩm phán thụ lý giải quyết đơn yêu cầu. Trong thời hạn 48 giờ, kể từ thời điểm nhận được đơn yêu cầu, Thẩm phán phải xem xét và ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời; nếu không chấp nhận yêu cầu thì Thẩm phán phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho người yêu cầu biết.
4. Trường hợp áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại khoản 10 và khoản 11

Section 1004. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì chỉ được phong tỏa tài khoản, tài sản có giá trị tương đương với nghĩa vụ tài sản mà người bị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời có nghĩa vụ phải thực hiện.

Section 1005. Original section/article: 134. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kiến nghị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện vụ án để bảo vệ lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện vụ án quy định tại

Section 1006. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này kiến nghị Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời bằng văn bản, trong đó phải nêu rõ lý do kiến nghị; biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời cần được áp dụng; tên, địa chỉ của người có quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cần được bảo vệ; tên, địa chỉ của người bị yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời; tóm tắt nội dung tranh chấp, hành vi xâm phạm quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự; chứng cứ để chứng minh cho việc kiến nghị của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1007. Original section/article: 135. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tòa án tự mình ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời Tòa án tự mình ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4 và 5

Section 1008. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này trong trường hợp đương sự không yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.

Section 1009. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Buộc thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng một trong các biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại các khoản 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15 và 16

Section 1010. Original section/article: 114. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này phải nộp cho Tòa án chứng từ bảo lãnh được bảo đảm bằng tài sản của ngân hàng hoặc tổ chức tín dụng khác hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác hoặc gửi một khoản tiền, kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc giấy tờ có giá do Tòa án ấn định nhưng phải tương đương với tổn thất hoặc thiệt hại có thể phát sinh do hậu quả của việc áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng để bảo vệ lợi ích của người bị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời và ngăn ngừa sự lạm dụng quyền yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời từ phía người có quyền yêu cầu.
Đối với trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1011. Original section/article: 111. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm quy định tại khoản này không được quá 48 giờ, kể từ thời điểm nộp đơn yêu cầu.
2. Khoản tiền, kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc giấy tờ có giá phải được gửi vào tài khoản phong tỏa tại ngân hàng nơi có trụ sở của Tòa án quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời trong thời hạn do Tòa án ấn định.
Trong trường hợp thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm vào ngày lễ hoặc ngày nghỉ thì khoản tiền bảo đảm được gửi giữ tại Tòa án. Tòa án phải làm thủ tục giao nhận và gửi ngay khoản tiền đó vào ngân hàng vào ngày làm việc tiếp theo.

Section 1012. Original section/article: 137. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi, áp dụng bổ sung biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời Khi xét thấy biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời đang được áp dụng không còn phù hợp mà cần thiết phải thay đổi hoặc áp dụng bổ sung biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác thì thủ tục thay đổi, áp dụng bổ sung biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời khác được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1013. Original section/article: 138. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ việc áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Tòa án ra ngay quyết định hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời đã được áp dụng khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời đề nghị hủy bỏ;
b) Người phải thi hành quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời nộp tài sản hoặc có người khác thực hiện biện pháp bảo đảm thi hành nghĩa vụ đối với bên có yêu cầu;
c) Nghĩa vụ dân sự của bên có nghĩa vụ chấm dứt theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự;
d) Việc giải quyết vụ án được đình chỉ theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
đ) Quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không đúng theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
e) Căn cứ của việc áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời không còn;
g) Vụ việc đã được giải quyết bằng bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật;
h) Các trường hợp Tòa án trả lại đơn khởi kiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời, Tòa án phải xem xét, quyết định để người yêu cầu áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời nhận lại chứng từ bảo lãnh được bảo đảm bằng tài sản của ngân hàng hoặc tổ chức tín dụng khác hoặc khoản tiền, kim khí quý, đá quý hoặc giấy tờ có giá quy định tại

Section 1014. Original section/article: 136. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1015. Original section/article: 113. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Thủ tục ra quyết định hủy bỏ việc áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1016. Original section/article: 133. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp đã có bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật thì việc giải quyết yêu cầu hủy quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời do một Thẩm phán được Chánh án của Tòa án đã ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời phân công giải quyết.

Section 1017. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời có hiệu lực thi hành ngay.
2. Tòa án phải cấp hoặc gửi quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời ngay sau khi ra quyết định cho người có yêu cầu, người bị áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1018. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Khiếu nại, kiến nghị về quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ hoặc không áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 
Đương sự có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị với Chánh án Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ án về quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời hoặc việc Thẩm phán không quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời. Thời hạn khiếu nại, kiến nghị là 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời hoặc trả lời của Thẩm phán về việc không ra quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.

Section 1019. Original section/article: 141. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị về quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ hoặc không áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Chánh án Tòa án phải xem xét, giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị quy định tại

Section 1020. Original section/article: 140. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được khiếu nại, kiến nghị.
2. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị của Chánh án là quyết định cuối cùng và phải được cấp hoặc gửi ngay theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1021. Original section/article: 139. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Tại phiên tòa, việc giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị thuộc thẩm quyền của Hội đồng xét xử. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị của Hội đồng xét xử là quyết định cuối cùng.

Section 1022. Original section/article: 142. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thi hành quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời 1. Quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời được thi hành theo quy định của pháp luật về thi hành án dân sự.
2. Trường hợp quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời đối với tài sản có đăng ký quyền sở hữu, quyền sử dụng thì đương sự có nghĩa vụ nộp bản sao quyết định cho cơ quan quản lý đăng ký quyền sở hữu, quyền sử dụng.
Chương IX ÁN PHÍ, LỆ PHÍ VÀ CHI PHÍ TỐ TỤNG KHÁC 
Mục 1. ÁN PHÍ, LỆ PHÍ

Section 1023. Original section/article: 143. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí; án phí, lệ phí 1. Tiền tạm ứng án phí bao gồm tiền tạm ứng án phí sơ thẩm và tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm.
2. Án phí bao gồm án phí sơ thẩm và án phí phúc thẩm.
3. Tiền tạm ứng lệ phí giải quyết việc dân sự bao gồm tiền tạm ứng lệ phí sơ thẩm và tiền tạm ứng lệ phí phúc thẩm.
4. Lệ phí bao gồm lệ phí cấp bản sao bản án, quyết định và các giấy tờ khác của Tòa án, lệ phí nộp đơn yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự, lệ phí giải quyết việc dân sự và các khoản lệ phí khác mà luật có quy định.

Section 1024. Original section/article: 144. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí, án phí, lệ phí thu được 1. Toàn bộ án phí, lệ phí thu được phải nộp đầy đủ, kịp thời vào ngân sách nhà nước tại kho bạc nhà nước.
2. Tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí được nộp cho cơ quan thi hành án có thẩm quyền để gửi vào tài khoản tạm giữ mở tại kho bạc nhà nước và được rút ra để thi hành án theo quyết định của Tòa án.
3. Người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí phải chịu án phí, lệ phí thì ngay sau khi bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật, số tiền tạm ứng đã thu được phải được nộp vào ngân sách nhà nước.
Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí được hoàn trả một phần hoặc toàn bộ số tiền đã nộp theo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án thì cơ quan thi hành án đã thu tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí phải làm thủ tục trả lại tiền cho họ.
4. Trường hợp việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự bị tạm đình chỉ thì tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí đã nộp được xử lý khi vụ việc được tiếp tục giải quyết.

Section 1025. Original section/article: 145. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chế độ thu, chi trả tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí, án phí, lệ phí Việc thu tiền tạm ứng án phí và án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí và lệ phí; việc chi trả tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí phải được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1026. Original section/article: 146. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí, tiền tạm ứng lệ phí 1. Nguyên đơn, bị đơn có yêu cầu phản tố đối với nguyên đơn và người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập trong vụ án dân sự phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí sơ thẩm, người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí.
2. Người nộp đơn yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự phải nộp tiền tạm ứng lệ phí giải quyết việc dân sự đó, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng lệ phí.
Đối với yêu cầu công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn thì vợ, chồng có thể thỏa thuận về việc nộp tiền tạm ứng lệ phí, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng lệ phí theo quy định của pháp luật. Trường hợp vợ, chồng không thỏa thuận được người nộp tiền tạm ứng lệ phí thì mỗi người phải nộp một nửa tiền tạm ứng lệ phí.

Section 1027. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu án phí sơ thẩm 1. Đương sự phải chịu án phí sơ thẩm nếu yêu cầu của họ không được Tòa án chấp nhận, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải chịu án phí sơ thẩm.
2. Trường hợp các đương sự không tự xác định được phần tài sản của mình trong khối tài sản chung và có yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết chia tài sản chung đó thì mỗi đương sự phải chịu án phí sơ thẩm tương ứng với giá trị phần tài sản mà họ được hưởng.
3. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, Tòa án tiến hành hòa giải; nếu các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án thì họ chỉ phải chịu 50% mức án phí sơ thẩm quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này.
4. Trong vụ án ly hôn thì nguyên đơn phải chịu án phí sơ thẩm, không phụ thuộc vào việc Tòa án chấp nhận hay không chấp nhận yêu cầu của nguyên đơn. Trường hợp cả hai thuận tình ly hôn thì mỗi bên đương sự phải chịu một nửa án phí sơ thẩm.
5. Trong vụ án có đương sự được miễn án phí sơ thẩm thì đương sự khác vẫn phải nộp án phí sơ thẩm mà mình phải chịu theo quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3 và 4 Điều này.
6. Trường hợp vụ án bị tạm đình chỉ giải quyết thì nghĩa vụ chịu án phí sơ thẩm được quyết định khi vụ án được tiếp tục giải quyết theo quy định tại Điều này.

Section 1028. Original section/article: 148. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu án phí phúc thẩm 
1. Đương sự kháng cáo phải chịu án phí phúc thẩm, nếu Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải chịu án phí phúc thẩm.
2. Trường hợp Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm sửa bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo thì đương sự kháng cáo không phải chịu án phí phúc thẩm; Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải xác định lại nghĩa vụ chịu án phí sơ thẩm theo quy định tại

Section 1029. Original section/article: 147. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm hủy bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo để xét xử lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm thì đương sự kháng cáo không phải chịu án phí phúc thẩm; nghĩa vụ chịu án phí được xác định lại khi giải quyết lại vụ án theo thủ tục sơ thẩm.

Section 1030. Original section/article: 149. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu lệ phí 1. Nghĩa vụ chịu lệ phí được xác định tùy theo từng loại việc dân sự cụ thể và do luật quy định.
2. Đối với yêu cầu công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn thì vợ, chồng có thể thỏa thuận về việc chịu lệ phí, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải chịu lệ phí theo quy định của pháp luật.
Trường hợp vợ, chồng không thỏa thuận được người có nghĩa vụ chịu lệ phí thì mỗi người phải chịu một nửa lệ phí.

Section 1031. Original section/article: 150. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quy định cụ thể về án phí, lệ phí Căn cứ vào quy định của Luật phí và lệ phí và Bộ luật này, Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội quy định cụ thể về án phí, lệ phí Tòa án; mức thu án phí, lệ phí Tòa án đối với mỗi loại vụ việc cụ thể; các trường hợp được miễn, giảm hoặc không phải nộp án phí, lệ phí Tòa án; chế độ thu, nộp, quản lý và sử dụng án phí, lệ phí Tòa án.
Mục 2. CÁC CHI PHÍ TỐ TỤNG KHÁC

Section 1032. Original section/article: 151. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài, chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài 1. Tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài là số tiền mà Tòa án tạm tính để chi trả cho việc ủy thác tư pháp khi tiến hành thu thập, cung cấp chứng cứ, tống đạt giấy tờ, hồ sơ, tài liệu, triệu tập người làm chứng, người giám định và các yêu cầu tương trợ tư pháp có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự.
2. Chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài là số tiền cần thiết và hợp lý phải chi trả cho việc thực hiện ủy thác tư pháp theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam và của nước được yêu cầu ủy thác tư pháp.

Section 1033. Original section/article: 152. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài 1. Nguyên đơn, người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm hoặc đương sự khác trong vụ án phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài khi yêu cầu của họ làm phát sinh việc ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.
2. Người yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự, người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm hoặc đương sự khác trong việc dân sự phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài khi yêu cầu của họ làm phát sinh việc ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.

Section 1034. Original section/article: 153. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài 
Trường hợp các bên đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài được xác định như sau:
1. Đương sự phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài nếu yêu cầu giải quyết vụ việc của họ không được Tòa án chấp nhận.
2. Trường hợp yêu cầu Tòa án chia tài sản chung thì mỗi người được chia tài sản phải chịu phần chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài tương ứng với tỷ lệ giá trị phần tài sản mà họ được chia.
3. Trong vụ án ly hôn thì nguyên đơn phải nộp chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài, không phụ thuộc vào việc Tòa án chấp nhận hay không chấp nhận yêu cầu của nguyên đơn. Trường hợp cả hai thuận tình ly hôn thì mỗi bên đương sự phải chịu một nửa chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.
4. Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại điểm c khoản 1

Section 1035. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì nguyên đơn phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.
Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét xử phúc thẩm quy định tại điểm b khoản 1

Section 1036. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.
5. Đối với các trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì người yêu cầu phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài.

Section 1037. Original section/article: 154. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài 1. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp không phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp thì người phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp theo quyết định của Tòa án phải hoàn trả cho người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp.
2. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí ủy thác tư pháp phải chịu chi phí ủy thác tư pháp, nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp chưa đủ cho chi phí ủy thác tư pháp thực tế thì họ phải nộp thêm phần tiền còn thiếu; nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp nhiều hơn chi phí ủy thác tư pháp thực tế thì họ được trả lại phần tiền còn thừa theo quyết định của Tòa án.

Section 1038. Original section/article: 155. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ, chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ 1. Tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ là số tiền mà Tòa án tạm tính để tiến hành việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
2. Chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ là số tiền cần thiết và hợp lý phải chi trả cho việc xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ căn cứ vào quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1039. Original section/article: 156. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án.
2. Trường hợp Tòa án xét thấy cần thiết và quyết định xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ thì nguyên đơn, người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự, người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.

Section 1040. Original section/article: 157. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ 
Trường hợp các bên đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ được xác định như sau:
1. Đương sự phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ nếu yêu cầu của họ không được Tòa án chấp nhận.
2. Trường hợp yêu cầu Tòa án chia tài sản chung thì mỗi người được chia tài sản phải chịu phần chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ theo tỷ lệ giá trị phần tài sản mà họ được chia.
3. Trong vụ án ly hôn thì nguyên đơn phải nộp chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ, không phụ thuộc vào việc Tòa án chấp nhận hay không chấp nhận yêu cầu của nguyên đơn. Trường hợp cả hai thuận tình ly hôn thì mỗi bên đương sự phải chịu một nửa chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
4. Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại điểm c khoản 1

Section 1041. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì nguyên đơn phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét xử phúc thẩm quy định tại điểm b khoản 1

Section 1042. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
5. Đối với các trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì người yêu cầu xem xét, thẩm định phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.

Section 1043. Original section/article: 158. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ 1. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ không phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ thì người phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ theo quyết định của Tòa án phải hoàn trả cho người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ.
2. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ phải chịu chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ, nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp chưa đủ cho chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ thực tế thì họ phải nộp thêm phần tiền còn thiếu; nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp nhiều hơn chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ thực tế thì họ được trả lại phần tiền còn thừa theo quyết định của Tòa án.

Section 1044. Original section/article: 159. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định, chi phí giám định 1. Tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định là số tiền mà người giám định tạm tính để tiến hành việc giám định theo quyết định của Tòa án hoặc theo yêu cầu giám định của đương sự.
2. Chi phí giám định là số tiền cần thiết và hợp lý phải chi trả cho việc giám định và do người giám định tính căn cứ vào quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1045. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định Trường hợp các đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định được xác định như sau:
1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án trưng cầu giám định phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định.
Trường hợp các bên đương sự yêu cầu Tòa án trưng cầu giám định về cùng một đối tượng thì mỗi bên đương sự phải nộp một nửa số tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định.
2. Trường hợp Tòa án xét thấy cần thiết và quyết định trưng cầu giám định thì nguyên đơn, người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự, người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định.
3. Đương sự, người có yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự, người kháng cáo đã yêu cầu Tòa án trưng cầu giám định mà không được chấp nhận và tự mình yêu cầu tổ chức, cá nhân thực hiện giám định thì việc nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật giám định tư pháp.

Section 1046. Original section/article: 161. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí giám định Trường hợp các bên đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí giám định được xác định như sau:
1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án trưng cầu giám định phải chịu chi phí giám định, nếu kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu của người đó là không có căn cứ. Trường hợp kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu của họ chỉ có căn cứ một phần thì họ phải nộp chi phí giám định đối với phần yêu cầu của họ đã được chứng minh là không có căn cứ.
2. Người không chấp nhận yêu cầu trưng cầu giám định của đương sự khác trong vụ án phải nộp chi phí giám định, nếu kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu của người yêu cầu trưng cầu giám định là có căn cứ. Trường hợp kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu trưng cầu giám định chỉ có căn cứ một phần thì người không chấp nhận yêu cầu trưng cầu giám định phải chịu chi phí giám định tương ứng với phần yêu cầu đã được chứng minh là có căn cứ.
3. Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại điểm c khoản 1

Section 1047. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì nguyên đơn phải chịu chi phí giám định.
Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét xử phúc thẩm quy định tại điểm b khoản 1

Section 1048. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải chịu chi phí giám định;
4. Trường hợp người tự mình yêu cầu giám định theo quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1049. Original section/article: 160. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, nếu kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu của người đó là có căn cứ thì người thua kiện phải chịu chi phí giám định. Trường hợp kết quả giám định chứng minh yêu cầu giám định của họ chỉ có căn cứ một phần thì họ phải nộp chi phí giám định đối với phần yêu cầu của họ đã được chứng minh là không có căn cứ;
5. Đối với các trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì người yêu cầu trưng cầu giám định phải chịu chi phí giám định.

Section 1050. Original section/article: 162. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định đã nộp 1. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định không phải chịu chi phí giám định thì người phải chịu chi phí giám định theo quyết định của Tòa án phải hoàn trả cho người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định.
2. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí giám định phải chịu chi phí giám định, nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp chưa đủ cho chi phí giám định thực tế thì họ phải nộp thêm phần tiền còn thiếu; nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp nhiều hơn chi phí giám định thực tế thì họ được trả lại phần tiền còn thừa theo quyết định của Tòa án.

Section 1051. Original section/article: 163. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản, chi phí định giá tài sản 1. Tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản là số tiền mà Hội đồng định giá tạm tính để tiến hành việc định giá tài sản theo quyết định của Tòa án.
2. Chi phí định giá tài sản là số tiền cần thiết và hợp lý phải chi trả cho công việc định giá tài sản và do Hội đồng định giá tính căn cứ vào quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1052. Original section/article: 164. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản Trường hợp các bên đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản được xác định như sau:
1. Người yêu cầu định giá tài sản phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản.
2. Trường hợp các bên đương sự không thống nhất được về giá và cùng yêu cầu Tòa án định giá tài sản thì mỗi bên đương sự phải nộp một nửa tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản. Trường hợp có nhiều đương sự, thì các bên đương sự cùng phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản theo mức mà Tòa án quyết định.
3. Đối với trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1053. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì nguyên đơn, người kháng cáo phải nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản.

Section 1054. Original section/article: 165. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí định giá tài sản, thẩm định giá Trường hợp các bên đương sự không có thỏa thuận khác hoặc pháp luật không có quy định khác thì nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí định giá tài sản, thẩm định giá được xác định như sau:
1. Đương sự phải chịu chi phí định giá tài sản nếu yêu cầu của họ không được Tòa án chấp nhận.
2. Trường hợp yêu cầu Tòa án chia tài sản chung thì mỗi người được chia tài sản phải chịu phần chi phí định giá tài sản tương ứng với tỷ lệ giá trị phần tài sản mà họ được chia.
3. Trường hợp Tòa án ra quyết định định giá tài sản quy định tại điểm c khoản 3

Section 1055. Original section/article: 104. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí định giá tài sản được xác định như sau:
a) Đương sự phải chịu chi phí định giá tài sản quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này nếu kết quả định giá chứng minh quyết định định giá tài sản của Tòa án là có căn cứ;
b) Tòa án trả chi phí định giá tài sản nếu kết quả định giá tài sản chứng minh quyết định định giá tài sản của Tòa án là không có căn cứ.
4. Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại điểm c khoản 1

Section 1056. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và Hội đồng định giá đã tiến hành định giá thì nguyên đơn phải chịu chi phí định giá tài sản.
Trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét xử phúc thẩm quy định tại điểm b khoản 1

Section 1057. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và Hội đồng định giá đã tiến hành định giá thì người kháng cáo theo thủ tục phúc thẩm phải chịu chi phí định giá tài sản.
5. Các trường hợp đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này và Hội đồng định giá đã tiến hành định giá thì người yêu cầu định giá tài sản phải chịu chi phí định giá tài sản.
6. Nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí thẩm định giá tài sản của đương sự được thực hiện như nghĩa vụ chịu chi phí định giá tài sản quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 4 và 5 Điều này.

Section 1058. Original section/article: 166. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản 1. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản không phải chịu chi phí định giá thì người phải chịu chi phí định giá theo quyết định của Tòa án phải hoàn trả cho người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá.
2. Trường hợp người đã nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản phải chịu chi phí định giá, nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp chưa đủ cho chi phí định giá thực tế thì họ phải nộp thêm phần tiền còn thiếu; nếu số tiền tạm ứng đã nộp nhiều hơn chi phí định giá thực tế thì họ được trả lại phần tiền còn thừa.

Section 1059. Original section/article: 167. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chi phí cho người làm chứng 1. Chi phí hợp lý và thực tế cho người làm chứng do đương sự chịu.
2. Người đề nghị Tòa án triệu tập người làm chứng phải chịu tiền chi phí cho người làm chứng nếu lời làm chứng phù hợp với sự thật nhưng không đúng với yêu cầu của người đề nghị. Trường hợp lời làm chứng phù hợp với sự thật và đúng với yêu cầu của người đề nghị triệu tập người làm chứng thì chi phí này do đương sự có yêu cầu độc lập với yêu cầu của người đề nghị chịu.

Section 1060. Original section/article: 168. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chi phí cho người phiên dịch, luật sư 1. Chi phí cho người phiên dịch là khoản tiền phải trả cho người phiên dịch trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc dân sự theo thỏa thuận của đương sự với người phiên dịch hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Chi phí cho luật sư là khoản tiền phải trả cho luật sư theo thỏa thuận của đương sự với luật sư trong phạm vi quy định của tổ chức hành nghề luật sư và theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Chi phí cho người phiên dịch, luật sư do người có yêu cầu chịu, trừ trường hợp các bên đương sự có thỏa thuận khác.
4. Trường hợp Tòa án yêu cầu người phiên dịch thì chi phí cho người phiên dịch do Tòa án trả.

Section 1061. Original section/article: 169. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quy định cụ thể về các chi phí tố tụng Căn cứ vào quy định của Bộ luật này, Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội quy định cụ thể về chi phí ủy thác tư pháp ra nước ngoài, chi phí xem xét, thẩm định tại chỗ, chi phí giám định, định giá tài sản; chi phí cho người làm chứng, người phiên dịch; chi phí tố tụng khác do luật khác quy định và việc miễn, giảm chi phí tố tụng trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án.
Chương X CẤP, TỐNG ĐẠT, THÔNG BÁO VĂN BẢN TỐ TỤNG

Section 1062. Original section/article: 170. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghĩa vụ cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát, cơ quan thi hành án thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng cho đương sự, những người tham gia tố tụng khác và cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan theo quy định của Bộ luật này và pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1063. Original section/article: 171. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Các văn bản tố tụng phải được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo 1. Thông báo, giấy báo, giấy triệu tập, giấy mời trong tố tụng dân sự.
2. Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án.
3. Quyết định kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát; các văn bản của cơ quan thi hành án dân sự.
4. Các văn bản tố tụng khác mà pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1064. Original section/article: 172. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng Việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng do những người sau đây thực hiện:
1. Người tiến hành tố tụng, người của cơ quan ban hành văn bản tố tụng được giao nhiệm vụ thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng.
2. Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi người tham gia tố tụng dân sự cư trú hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức nơi người tham gia tố tụng dân sự làm việc khi Tòa án có yêu cầu.
3. Đương sự, người đại diện của đương sự hoặc người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự trong những trường hợp do Bộ luật này quy định.
4. Nhân viên tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính.
5. Người có chức năng tống đạt.
6. Những người khác mà pháp luật có quy định.

Section 1065. Original section/article: 173. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Các phương thức cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng Việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng được thực hiện bằng các phương thức sau đây:
1. Cấp, tống đạt, thông báo trực tiếp, qua dịch vụ bưu chính hoặc người thứ ba được ủy quyền thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo.
2. Cấp, tống đạt, thông báo bằng phương tiện điện tử theo yêu cầu của đương sự hoặc người tham gia tố tụng khác phù hợp với quy định của pháp luật về giao dịch điện tử.
3. Niêm yết công khai.
4. Thông báo trên các phương tiện thông tin đại chúng.
5. Cấp, tống đạt, thông báo bằng phương thức khác theo quy định tại Chương XXXVIII của Bộ luật này.

Section 1066. Original section/article: 174. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tính hợp lệ của việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng 1. Việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì được coi là hợp lệ.
2. Người có nghĩa vụ thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng phải thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Người có nghĩa vụ thi hành các văn bản tố tụng đã được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo hợp lệ phải nghiêm chỉnh thi hành.

Section 1067. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng 1. Người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng phải trực tiếp chuyển giao cho người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng có liên quan. Người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo phải ký nhận vào biên bản hoặc sổ giao nhận văn bản tố tụng. Thời điểm để tính thời hạn tố tụng là ngày họ được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng.
2. Việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng qua dịch vụ bưu chính phải bằng thư bảo đảm và có xác nhận của người nhận văn bản tố tụng.
Văn bản có xác nhận phải được chuyển lại cho Tòa án.
Thời điểm để tính thời hạn tố tụng là ngày họ xác nhận đã nhận được văn bản tố tụng do tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính chuyển đến.

Section 1068. Original section/article: 176. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục cấp, tống đạt, thông báo bằng phương tiện điện tử 
Việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo bằng phương tiện điện tử được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về giao dịch điện tử.
Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hướng dẫn thi hành Điều này.

Section 1069. Original section/article: 177. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục cấp, tống đạt, thông báo trực tiếp cho cá nhân 1. Văn bản tố tụng được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo đến địa chỉ mà các đương sự đã gửi cho Tòa án theo phương thức đương sự yêu cầu hoặc tới địa chỉ mà các đương sự đã thỏa thuận và đề nghị Tòa án liên hệ theo địa chỉ đó.
2. Người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo là cá nhân thì văn bản tố tụng phải được giao trực tiếp cho họ. Đương sự phải ký nhận theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1070. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo đã chuyển đến nơi cư trú mới và đã thông báo cho Tòa án việc thay đổi nơi cư trú thì phải cấp, tống đạt, thông báo theo địa chỉ nơi cư trú mới của họ. Đương sự phải ký nhận hoặc điểm chỉ theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1071. Original section/article: 175. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Nếu họ không thông báo cho Tòa án biết về việc thay đổi địa chỉ nơi cư trú và địa chỉ nơi cư trú mới thì Tòa án thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1072. Original section/article: 180. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo từ chối nhận văn bản tố tụng thì người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo phải lập biên bản trong đó nêu rõ lý do của việc từ chối, có xác nhận của đại diện tổ dân phố hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn về việc người đó từ chối nhận văn bản tố tụng. Biên bản phải được lưu trong hồ sơ vụ án.
5. Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo vắng mặt thì người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo phải lập biên bản và giao cho người thân thích có đủ năng lực hành vi dân sự cùng nơi cư trú với họ hoặc tổ trưởng tổ dân phố, trưởng thôn, làng, ấp, bản, buôn, phum, sóc để thực hiện việc ký nhận hoặc điểm chỉ và yêu cầu người này cam kết giao lại tận tay ngay cho người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo. Biên bản phải được lưu trong hồ sơ vụ án.
Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo vắng mặt ở nơi cư trú mà không rõ thời điểm trở về hoặc không rõ địa chỉ nơi cư trú mới của họ thì người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo phải lập biên bản về việc không thực hiện được việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo, có xác nhận của đại diện tổ dân phố hoặc Công an xã, phường, thị trấn; đồng thời, thực hiện thủ tục niêm yết công khai văn bản cần tống đạt theo quy định tại

Section 1073. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Biên bản phải được lưu trong hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1074. Original section/article: 178. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục cấp, tống đạt, thông báo trực tiếp cho cơ quan, tổ chức 1. Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo là cơ quan, tổ chức thì văn bản tố tụng phải được giao trực tiếp cho người đại diện theo pháp luật hoặc người chịu trách nhiệm nhận văn bản của cơ quan, tổ chức đó và phải được những người này ký nhận. Trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo có người đại diện tham gia tố tụng hoặc cử người đại diện nhận văn bản tố tụng thì những người này ký nhận văn bản tố tụng đó. Ngày ký nhận là ngày được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo.
2. Trường hợp người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo từ chối nhận văn bản tố tụng hoặc vắng mặt thì thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 1075. Original section/article: 179. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục niêm yết công khai 1. Việc niêm yết công khai văn bản tố tụng được thực hiện trong trường hợp không thể cấp, tống đạt, thông báo trực tiếp văn bản tố tụng theo quy định tại

Section 1076. Original section/article: 178. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Việc niêm yết công khai văn bản tố tụng do Tòa án trực tiếp thực hiện hoặc ủy quyền cho người có chức năng tống đạt hoặc Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi đương sự cư trú, nơi cơ quan, tổ chức có trụ sở thực hiện theo thủ tục sau đây:
a) Niêm yết bản chính tại trụ sở Tòa án, Ủy ban nhân dân cấp xã nơi cư trú hoặc nơi cư trú cuối cùng của cá nhân, nơi có trụ sở hoặc trụ sở cuối cùng của cơ quan, tổ chức được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo;
b) Niêm yết bản sao tại nơi cư trú hoặc nơi cư trú cuối cùng của cá nhân, nơi có trụ sở hoặc trụ sở cuối cùng của cơ quan, tổ chức được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo;
c) Lập biên bản về việc thực hiện thủ tục niêm yết công khai, trong đó ghi rõ ngày, tháng, năm niêm yết.
3. Thời hạn niêm yết công khai văn bản tố tụng là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày niêm yết.

Section 1077. Original section/article: 180. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục thông báo trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng 1. Việc thông báo trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng được thực hiện khi pháp luật có quy định hoặc có căn cứ xác định là việc niêm yết công khai không bảo đảm cho người được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo nhận được thông tin về văn bản cần được cấp, tống đạt, thông báo.
2. Việc thông báo trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng có thể được thực hiện nếu có yêu cầu của các đương sự khác. Trong trường hợp này, lệ phí thông báo trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng do đương sự có yêu cầu thông báo chịu.
3. Thông báo trên phương tiện thông tin đại chúng phải được đăng trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án, trên một trong các báo hàng ngày của Trung ương trong ba số liên tiếp và phát sóng trên Đài phát thanh hoặc Đài truyền hình của Trung ương ba lần trong 03 ngày liên tiếp.

Section 1078. Original section/article: 181. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo kết quả việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng Trường hợp người thực hiện việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng không phải là Tòa án hoặc cơ quan ban hành văn bản tố tụng hoặc cán bộ của các cơ quan đó thì người thực hiện phải thông báo ngay kết quả việc cấp, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng cho Tòa án hoặc cơ quan ban hành văn bản tố tụng đó.
Chương XI THỜI HẠN TỐ TỤNG

Section 1079. Original section/article: 182. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn tố tụng 1. Thời hạn tố tụng là một khoảng thời gian được xác định từ thời điểm này đến thời điểm khác để người tiến hành tố tụng, người tham gia tố tụng hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan thực hiện hành vi tố tụng do Bộ luật này quy định.
2. Thời hạn tố tụng có thể được xác định bằng giờ, ngày, tuần, tháng, năm hoặc bằng một sự kiện có thể sẽ xảy ra.

Section 1080. Original section/article: 183. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật dân sự về thời hạn Cách tính thời hạn tố tụng, quy định về thời hạn tố tụng, thời điểm bắt đầu, kết thúc thời hạn tố tụng trong Bộ luật này được áp dụng theo các quy định tương ứng của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1081. Original section/article: 184. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu khởi kiện, thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự 
1. Thời hiệu khởi kiện, thời hiệu yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Tòa án chỉ áp dụng quy định về thời hiệu theo yêu cầu áp dụng thời hiệu của một bên hoặc các bên với điều kiện yêu cầu này phải được đưa ra trước khi Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm ra bản án, quyết định giải quyết vụ việc.
Người được hưởng lợi từ việc áp dụng thời hiệu có quyền từ chối áp dụng thời hiệu, trừ trường hợp việc từ chối đó nhằm mục đích trốn tránh thực hiện nghĩa vụ.

Section 1082. Original section/article: 185. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng quy định của Bộ luật dân sự về thời hiệu Các quy định của Bộ luật dân sự về thời hiệu được áp dụng trong tố tụng dân sự.
Phần thứ hai THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ ÁN TẠI TÒA ÁN CẤP SƠ THẨM 
Chương XII KHỞI KIỆN VÀ THỤ LÝ VỤ ÁN

Section 1083. Original section/article: 186. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền khởi kiện vụ án Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền tự mình hoặc thông qua người đại diện hợp pháp khởi kiện vụ án (sau đây gọi chung là người khởi kiện) tại Tòa án có thẩm quyền để yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình.

Section 1084. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền khởi kiện vụ án dân sự để bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác, lợi ích công cộng và lợi ích của Nhà nước 1. Cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em, Hội liên hiệp phụ nữ Việt Nam trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có quyền khởi kiện vụ án về hôn nhân và gia đình theo quy định của Luật hôn nhân và gia đình.
2. Tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động có quyền khởi kiện vụ án lao động trong trường hợp cần bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của tập thể người lao động hoặc khi được người lao động ủy quyền theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Tổ chức xã hội tham gia bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng có quyền đại diện cho người tiêu dùng khởi kiện bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng hoặc tự mình khởi kiện vì lợi ích công cộng theo quy định của Luật bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng.
4. Cơ quan, tổ chức trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có quyền khởi kiện vụ án dân sự để yêu cầu Tòa án bảo vệ lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước thuộc lĩnh vực mình phụ trách hoặc theo quy định của pháp luật.
5. Cá nhân có quyền khởi kiện vụ án hôn nhân và gia đình để bảo vệ quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khác theo quy định của Luật hôn nhân và gia đình.

Section 1085. Original section/article: 188. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi khởi kiện 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thể khởi kiện một hoặc nhiều cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác về một quan hệ pháp luật hoặc nhiều quan hệ pháp luật có liên quan với nhau để giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án.
2. Nhiều cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thể cùng khởi kiện một cơ quan, một tổ chức, một cá nhân khác về một quan hệ pháp luật hoặc nhiều quan hệ pháp luật có liên quan với nhau để giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án.
3. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân quy định tại

Section 1086. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này có thể khởi kiện một hoặc nhiều cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác về một quan hệ pháp luật hoặc nhiều quan hệ pháp luật có liên quan với nhau để giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án.

Section 1087. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hình thức, nội dung đơn khởi kiện 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện phải làm đơn khởi kiện.
2. Việc làm đơn khởi kiện của cá nhân được thực hiện như sau:
a) Cá nhân có đầy đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự thì có thể tự mình hoặc nhờ người khác làm hộ đơn khởi kiện vụ án. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú của người khởi kiện trong đơn phải ghi họ tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú của cá nhân đó; ở phần cuối đơn, cá nhân đó phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ;
b) Cá nhân là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi thì người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có thể tự mình hoặc nhờ người khác làm hộ đơn khởi kiện vụ án. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú của người khởi kiện trong đơn phải ghi họ tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú của người đại diện hợp pháp của cá nhân đó; ở phần cuối đơn, người đại diện hợp pháp đó phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ;
c) Cá nhân thuộc trường hợp quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản này là người không biết chữ, người khuyết tật nhìn, người không thể tự mình làm đơn khởi kiện, người không thể tự mình ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ thì có thể nhờ người khác làm hộ đơn khởi kiện và phải có người có đủ năng lực tố tụng dân sự làm chứng. Người làm chứng phải ký xác nhận vào đơn khởi kiện.
3. Cơ quan, tổ chức là người khởi kiện thì người đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức đó có thể tự mình hoặc nhờ người khác làm hộ đơn khởi kiện vụ án. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người khởi kiện phải ghi tên, địa chỉ của cơ quan, tổ chức và họ, tên, chức vụ của người đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức đó; ở phần cuối đơn, người đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức phải ký tên và đóng dấu của cơ quan, tổ chức đó; trường hợp tổ chức khởi kiện là doanh nghiệp thì việc sử dụng con dấu theo quy định của Luật doanh nghiệp.
4. Đơn khởi kiện phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm đơn khởi kiện;
b) Tên Tòa án nhận đơn khởi kiện;
c) Tên, nơi cư trú, làm việc của người khởi kiện là cá nhân hoặc trụ sở của người khởi kiện là cơ quan, tổ chức; số điện thoại, fax và địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có).
Trường hợp các bên thỏa thuận địa chỉ để Tòa án liên hệ thì ghi rõ địa chỉ đó;
d) Tên, nơi cư trú, làm việc của người có quyền và lợi ích được bảo vệ là cá nhân hoặc trụ sở của người có quyền và lợi ích được bảo vệ là cơ quan, tổ chức; số điện thoại, fax và địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có);
đ) Tên, nơi cư trú, làm việc của người bị kiện là cá nhân hoặc trụ sở của người bị kiện là cơ quan, tổ chức; số điện thoại, fax và địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có). Trường hợp không rõ nơi cư trú,
làm việc hoặc trụ sở của người bị kiện thì ghi rõ địa chỉ nơi cư trú, làm việc hoặc nơi có trụ sở cuối cùng của người bị kiện;
e) Tên, nơi cư trú, làm việc của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan là cá nhân hoặc trụ sở của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan là cơ quan, tổ chức; số điện thoại, fax và địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có).
Trường hợp không rõ nơi cư trú, làm việc hoặc trụ sở của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan thì ghi rõ địa chỉ nơi cư trú, làm việc hoặc nơi có trụ sở cuối cùng của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
g) Quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khởi kiện bị xâm phạm; những vấn đề cụ thể yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết đối với người bị kiện, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
h) Họ, tên, địa chỉ của người làm chứng (nếu có);
i) Danh mục tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo đơn khởi kiện.
5. Kèm theo đơn khởi kiện phải có tài liệu, chứng cứ chứng minh quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khởi kiện bị xâm phạm. Trường hợp vì lý do khách quan mà người khởi kiện không thể nộp đầy đủ tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo đơn khởi kiện thì họ phải nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ hiện có để chứng minh quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người khởi kiện bị xâm phạm. Người khởi kiện bổ sung hoặc giao nộp bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ khác theo yêu cầu của Tòa án trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án.

Section 1088. Original section/article: 190. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi đơn khởi kiện đến Tòa án 1. Người khởi kiện gửi đơn khởi kiện kèm theo tài liệu, chứng cứ mà mình hiện có đến Tòa án có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ án bằng các phương thức sau đây:
a) Nộp trực tiếp tại Tòa án;
b) Gửi đến Tòa án theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính;
c) Gửi trực tuyến bằng hình thức điện tử qua Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có).
2. Ngày khởi kiện là ngày đương sự nộp đơn khởi kiện tại Tòa án hoặc ngày được ghi trên dấu của tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính nơi gửi.
Trường hợp không xác định được ngày, tháng, năm theo dấu bưu chính nơi gửi thì ngày khởi kiện là ngày đương sự gửi đơn tại tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính. Đương sự phải chứng minh ngày mình gửi đơn tại tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính; trường hợp đương sự không chứng minh được thì ngày khởi kiện là ngày Tòa án nhận được đơn khởi kiện do tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính chuyển đến.
3. Trường hợp người khởi kiện gửi đơn khởi kiện bằng phương thức gửi trực tuyến thì ngày khởi kiện là ngày gửi đơn.
4. Trường hợp chuyển vụ án cho Tòa án khác theo quy định tại

Section 1089. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì ngày khởi kiện là ngày gửi đơn khởi kiện đến Tòa án đã thụ lý nhưng không đúng thẩm quyền và được xác định theo quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3 Điều này.
5. Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hướng dẫn thi hành Điều này.

Section 1090. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục nhận và xử lý đơn khởi kiện 
1. Tòa án qua bộ phận tiếp nhận đơn phải nhận đơn khởi kiện do người khởi kiện nộp trực tiếp tại Tòa án hoặc gửi qua dịch vụ bưu chính và phải ghi vào sổ nhận đơn; trường hợp Tòa án nhận đơn khởi kiện được gửi bằng phương thức gửi trực tuyến thì Tòa án in ra bản giấy và phải ghi vào sổ nhận đơn.
Khi nhận đơn khởi kiện nộp trực tiếp, Tòa án có trách nhiệm cấp ngay giấy xác nhận đã nhận đơn cho người khởi kiện. Đối với trường hợp nhận đơn qua dịch vụ bưu chính thì trong thời hạn 02 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận đơn, Tòa án phải gửi thông báo nhận đơn cho người khởi kiện. Trường hợp nhận đơn khởi kiện bằng phương thức gửi trực tuyến thì Tòa án phải thông báo ngay việc nhận đơn cho người khởi kiện qua Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có).
2. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được đơn khởi kiện, Chánh án Tòa án phân công một Thẩm phán xem xét đơn khởi kiện.
3. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày được phân công, Thẩm phán phải xem xét đơn khởi kiện và có một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn khởi kiện;
b) Tiến hành thủ tục thụ lý vụ án theo thủ tục thông thường hoặc theo thủ tục rút gọn nếu vụ án có đủ điều kiện để giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1091. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Chuyển đơn khởi kiện cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền và thông báo cho người khởi kiện nếu vụ án thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án khác;
d) Trả lại đơn khởi kiện cho người khởi kiện nếu vụ việc đó không thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án.
4. Kết quả xử lý đơn của Thẩm phán quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này phải được ghi chú vào sổ nhận đơn và thông báo cho người khởi kiện qua Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có).

Section 1092. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trả lại đơn khởi kiện, hậu quả của việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện 1. Thẩm phán trả lại đơn khởi kiện trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người khởi kiện không có quyền khởi kiện theo quy định tại

Section 1093. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc không có đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự;
b) Chưa có đủ điều kiện khởi kiện theo quy định của pháp luật.
Chưa có đủ điều kiện khởi kiện là trường hợp pháp luật có quy định về các điều kiện khởi kiện nhưng người khởi kiện đã khởi kiện đến Tòa án khi còn thiếu một trong các điều kiện đó;
c) Sự việc đã được giải quyết bằng bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án hoặc quyết định đã có hiệu lực của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền, trừ trường hợp vụ án mà Tòa án bác đơn yêu cầu ly hôn, yêu cầu thay đổi nuôi con, thay đổi mức cấp dưỡng, mức bồi thường thiệt hại, yêu cầu thay đổi người quản lý tài sản, thay đổi người quản lý di sản, thay đổi người giám hộ hoặc vụ án đòi tài sản, đòi tài sản cho thuê, cho mượn, đòi nhà, đòi quyền sử dụng đất cho thuê, cho mượn, cho ở nhờ mà Tòa án chưa chấp nhận yêu cầu và theo quy định của pháp luật được quyền khởi kiện lại;
d) Hết thời hạn quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1094. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này mà người khởi kiện không nộp biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí cho Tòa án, trừ trường hợp người khởi kiện được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí hoặc có trở ngại khách quan, sự kiện bất khả kháng;
đ) Vụ án không thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án;
e) Người khởi kiện không sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn khởi kiện theo yêu cầu của Thẩm phán quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1095. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp trong đơn khởi kiện, người khởi kiện đã ghi đầy đủ và đúng địa chỉ nơi cư trú của người bị kiện, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan nhưng họ không có nơi cư trú ổn định, thường xuyên thay đổi nơi cư trú, trụ sở mà không thông báo địa chỉ mới cho cơ quan, người có thẩm quyền theo quy định của pháp luật về cư trú làm cho người khởi kiện không biết được nhằm mục đích che giấu địa chỉ, trốn tránh nghĩa vụ đối với người khởi kiện thì Thẩm phán không trả lại đơn khởi kiện mà xác định người bị kiện, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan cố tình giấu địa chỉ và tiến hành thụ lý, giải quyết theo thủ tục chung.
Trường hợp trong đơn khởi kiện, người khởi kiện không ghi đầy đủ, cụ thể hoặc ghi không đúng tên, địa chỉ của người bị kiện, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan mà không sửa chữa, bổ sung theo yêu cầu của Thẩm phán thì Thẩm phán trả lại đơn khởi kiện;
g) Người khởi kiện rút đơn khởi kiện.
2. Khi trả lại đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo cho người khởi kiện, Thẩm phán phải có văn bản nêu rõ lý do trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đồng thời gửi cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp. Đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ mà Thẩm phán trả lại cho người khởi kiện phải được sao chụp và lưu tại Tòa án để làm cơ sở giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị khi có yêu cầu.
3. Đương sự có quyền nộp đơn khởi kiện lại trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người khởi kiện đã có đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự;
b) Yêu cầu ly hôn, yêu cầu thay đổi nuôi con, thay đổi mức cấp dưỡng, mức bồi thường thiệt hại, yêu cầu thay đổi người quản lý tài sản, thay đổi người quản lý di sản, thay đổi người giám hộ hoặc vụ án đòi tài sản, đòi tài sản cho thuê, cho mượn, đòi nhà, đòi quyền sử dụng đất cho thuê, cho mượn, cho ở nhờ mà trước đó Tòa án chưa chấp nhận yêu cầu mà theo quy định của pháp luật được quyền khởi kiện lại;
c) Đã có đủ điều kiện khởi kiện;
d) Các trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
4. Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hướng dẫn thi hành khoản 1 và khoản 3 Điều này.

Section 1096. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn khởi kiện 1. Trường hợp đơn khởi kiện không có đủ các nội dung quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1097. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Thẩm phán thông báo bằng văn bản nêu rõ những vấn đề cần sửa đổi, bổ sung cho người khởi kiện để họ sửa đổi, bổ sung trong thời hạn do Thẩm phán ấn định nhưng không quá 01 tháng; trường hợp đặc biệt, Thẩm phán có thể gia hạn nhưng không quá 15 ngày. Văn bản thông báo có thể được giao trực tiếp, gửi trực tuyến hoặc gửi cho người khởi kiện qua dịch vụ bưu chính và phải ghi chú vào sổ nhận đơn để theo dõi. Thời hạn thực hiện việc sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn khởi kiện không tính vào thời hiệu khởi kiện.
2. Trường hợp người khởi kiện đã sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn khởi kiện theo đúng quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1098. Original section/article: 189. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Thẩm phán tiếp tục việc thụ lý vụ án; nếu họ không sửa đổi, bổ sung theo yêu cầu thì Thẩm phán trả lại đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo cho người khởi kiện.

Section 1099. Original section/article: 194. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Khiếu nại, kiến nghị và giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị về việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện 1. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản trả lại đơn khởi kiện, người khởi kiện có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị với Tòa án đã trả lại đơn khởi kiện.
2. Ngay sau khi nhận được khiếu nại, kiến nghị về việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện, Chánh án Tòa án phải phân công một Thẩm phán khác xem xét, giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị.
3. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày được phân công, Thẩm phán phải mở phiên họp xem xét, giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị. Phiên họp xem xét, giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị có sự tham gia của đại diện Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và đương sự có khiếu nại; trường hợp đương sự vắng mặt thì Thẩm phán vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
4. Căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan đến việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện, ý kiến của đại diện Viện kiểm sát và đương sự có khiếu nại tại phiên họp, Thẩm phán phải ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện và thông báo cho đương sự, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp;
b) Nhận lại đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo để tiến hành việc thụ lý vụ án.
5. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định trả lời khiếu nại, kiến nghị về việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện của Thẩm phán, người khởi kiện có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị với Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp xem xét, giải quyết.
6. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được khiếu nại, kiến nghị về việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện, Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp phải ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên việc trả lại đơn khởi kiện;
b) Yêu cầu Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm nhận lại đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo để tiến hành việc thụ lý vụ án.
Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị của Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp có hiệu lực thi hành và được gửi ngay cho người khởi kiện, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, Viện kiểm sát đã kiến nghị và Tòa án đã ra quyết định trả lại đơn khởi kiện.
7. Trường hợp có căn cứ xác định quyết định giải quyết của Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp quy định tại khoản 6 Điều này có vi phạm pháp luật thì trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định, đương sự có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị với Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao nếu quyết định bị khiếu nại, kiến nghị là của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh hoặc với Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao nếu quyết định bị khiếu nại, kiến nghị là của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao.
Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được khiếu nại của đương sự, kiến nghị của Viện kiểm sát thì Chánh án phải giải quyết. Quyết định của Chánh án là quyết định cuối cùng.

Section 1100. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thụ lý vụ án 1. Sau khi nhận đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, nếu xét thấy vụ án thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án thì Thẩm phán phải thông báo ngay cho người khởi kiện biết để họ đến Tòa án làm thủ tục nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí trong trường hợp họ phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí.
2. Thẩm phán dự tính số tiền tạm ứng án phí, ghi vào giấy báo và giao cho người khởi kiện để họ nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí. Trong thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được giấy báo của Tòa án về việc nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí, người khởi kiện phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí và nộp cho Tòa án biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí.
3. Thẩm phán thụ lý vụ án khi người khởi kiện nộp cho Tòa án biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí.
4. Trường hợp người khởi kiện được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí thì Thẩm phán phải thụ lý vụ án khi nhận được đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo.

Section 1101. Original section/article: 196. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về việc thụ lý vụ án 1. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án, Thẩm phán phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho nguyên đơn, bị đơn, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án, cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp về việc Tòa án đã thụ lý vụ án.
Đối với vụ án do người tiêu dùng khởi kiện thì Tòa án phải niêm yết công khai tại trụ sở Tòa án thông tin về việc thụ lý vụ án trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án.
2. Văn bản thông báo phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm văn bản thông báo;
b) Tên, địa chỉ Tòa án đã thụ lý vụ án;
c) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người khởi kiện;
d) Những vấn đề cụ thể người khởi kiện yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết;
đ) Vụ án được thụ lý theo thủ tục thông thường hay thủ tục rút gọn;
e) Danh mục tài liệu, chứng cứ người khởi kiện nộp kèm theo đơn khởi kiện;
g) Thời hạn bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan phải có ý kiến bằng văn bản nộp cho Tòa án đối với yêu cầu của người khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, yêu cầu phản tố, yêu cầu độc lập (nếu có);
h) Hậu quả pháp lý của việc bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không nộp cho Tòa án văn bản về ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu khởi kiện.
3. Trường hợp nguyên đơn có đơn yêu cầu Tòa án hỗ trợ trong việc gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ thì kèm theo thông báo về việc thụ lý vụ án, Tòa án gửi cho bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan bản sao tài liệu, chứng cứ do nguyên đơn cung cấp.

Section 1102. Original section/article: 197. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phân công Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ án 1. Trên cơ sở báo cáo thụ lý vụ án của Thẩm phán được phân công thụ lý vụ án, Chánh án Tòa án quyết định phân công Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ án bảo đảm nguyên tắc vô tư, khách quan, ngẫu nhiên.
2. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án, Chánh án Tòa án quyết định phân công Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ án.
Đối với vụ án phức tạp, việc giải quyết có thể phải kéo dài thì Chánh án Tòa án phân công Thẩm phán dự khuyết để bảo đảm xét xử đúng thời hạn theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án, nếu Thẩm phán được phân công không thể tiếp tục tiến hành được nhiệm vụ thì Chánh án Tòa án phân công Thẩm phán khác tiếp tục nhiệm vụ; trường hợp
đang xét xử mà không có Thẩm phán dự khuyết thì vụ án phải được xét xử lại từ đầu và Tòa án phải thông báo cho đương sự, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1103. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của Thẩm phán khi lập hồ sơ vụ án 1. Lập hồ sơ vụ án theo quy định tại

Section 1104. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Yêu cầu đương sự giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án.
3. Tiến hành xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ theo quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1105. Original section/article: 199. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan khi nhận được thông báo 1. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được thông báo, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan phải nộp cho Tòa án văn bản ghi ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, yêu cầu phản tố, yêu cầu độc lập (nếu có).
Trường hợp cần gia hạn thì bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan phải có đơn đề nghị gia hạn gửi cho Tòa án nêu rõ lý do; nếu việc đề nghị gia hạn là có căn cứ thì Tòa án phải gia hạn nhưng không quá 15 ngày.
2. Bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án cho xem, ghi chép, sao chụp đơn khởi kiện và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo đơn khởi kiện, trừ tài liệu, chứng cứ quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1106. Original section/article: 200. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu phản tố của bị đơn 1. Cùng với việc phải nộp cho Tòa án văn bản ghi ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, bị đơn có quyền yêu cầu phản tố đối với nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập.
2. Yêu cầu phản tố của bị đơn đối với nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập được chấp nhận khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu phản tố để bù trừ nghĩa vụ với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập;
b) Yêu cầu phản tố được chấp nhận dẫn đến loại trừ việc chấp nhận một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập;
c) Giữa yêu cầu phản tố và yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập có sự liên quan với nhau và nếu được giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án thì làm cho việc giải quyết vụ án được chính xác và nhanh hơn.
3. Bị đơn có quyền đưa ra yêu cầu phản tố trước thời điểm mở phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải.

Section 1107. Original section/article: 201. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu độc lập của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan 1. Trường hợp người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không tham gia tố tụng với bên nguyên đơn hoặc với bên bị đơn thì họ có quyền yêu cầu độc lập khi có các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ của họ;
b) Yêu cầu độc lập của họ có liên quan đến vụ án đang được giải quyết;
c) Yêu cầu độc lập của họ được giải quyết trong cùng một vụ án làm cho việc giải quyết vụ án được chính xác và nhanh hơn.
2. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền đưa ra yêu cầu độc lập trước thời điểm mở phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải.

Section 1108. Original section/article: 202. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục yêu cầu phản tố hoặc yêu cầu độc lập Thủ tục yêu cầu phản tố hoặc yêu cầu độc lập được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này về thủ tục khởi kiện của nguyên đơn.
Chương XIII THỦ TỤC HÒA GIẢI VÀ CHUẨN BỊ XÉT XỬ

Section 1109. Original section/article: 203. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử 1. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử các loại vụ án, trừ các vụ án được xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn hoặc vụ án có yếu tố nước ngoài, được quy định như sau:
a) Đối với các vụ án quy định tại

Section 1110. Original section/article: 28. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn là 04 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án;
b) Đối với các vụ án quy định tại

Section 1111. Original section/article: 32. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn là 02 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án.
Đối với vụ án có tính chất phức tạp hoặc do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan thì Chánh án Tòa án có thể quyết định gia hạn thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử nhưng không quá 02 tháng đối với vụ án thuộc trường hợp quy định tại điểm a khoản này và không quá 01 tháng đối với vụ án thuộc trường hợp quy định tại điểm b khoản này.
Trường hợp có quyết định tạm đình chỉ việc giải quyết vụ án thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử được tính lại kể từ ngày quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật.
2. Trong giai đoạn chuẩn bị xét xử, Thẩm phán thực hiện các nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn sau đây:
a) Lập hồ sơ vụ án theo quy định tại

Section 1112. Original section/article: 198. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Xác định tư cách đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác;
c) Xác định quan hệ tranh chấp giữa các đương sự và pháp luật cần áp dụng;
d) Làm rõ những tình tiết khách quan của vụ án;
đ) Xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
e) Áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
g) Tổ chức phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải theo quy định của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp vụ án được giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn;
h) Thực hiện nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, tùy từng trường hợp, Thẩm phán ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự;
b) Tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự;
c) Đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự;
d) Đưa vụ án ra xét xử.
4. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử, Tòa án phải mở phiên tòa; trường hợp có lý do chính đáng thì thời hạn này là 02 tháng.

Section 1113. Original section/article: 204. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Lập hồ sơ vụ án dân sự 1. Hồ sơ vụ án dân sự bao gồm đơn và toàn bộ tài liệu, chứng cứ của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác; tài liệu, chứng cứ do Tòa án thu thập liên quan đến vụ án; văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát về việc giải quyết vụ án dân sự.
2. Các giấy tờ, tài liệu trong hồ sơ vụ án dân sự phải được đánh số bút lục, sắp xếp theo thứ tự ngày, tháng, năm. Giấy tờ, tài liệu có trước thì để ở dưới, giấy tờ, tài liệu có sau thì để ở trên và phải được quản lý, lưu giữ, sử dụng theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1114. Original section/article: 205. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc tiến hành hòa giải 1. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử sơ thẩm vụ án, Tòa án tiến hành hòa giải để các đương sự thỏa thuận với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án, trừ những vụ án không được hòa giải hoặc không tiến hành hòa giải được quy định tại

Section 1115. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc vụ án được giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn.
2. Việc hòa giải được tiến hành theo các nguyên tắc sau đây:
a) Tôn trọng sự tự nguyện thỏa thuận của các đương sự, không được dùng vũ lực hoặc đe dọa dùng vũ lực, bắt buộc các đương sự phải thỏa thuận không phù hợp với ý chí của mình;
b) Nội dung thỏa thuận giữa các đương sự không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1116. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những vụ án dân sự không được hòa giải 1. Yêu cầu đòi bồi thường vì lý do gây thiệt hại đến tài sản của Nhà nước.
2. Những vụ án phát sinh từ giao dịch dân sự vi phạm điều cấm của luật hoặc trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1117. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những vụ án dân sự không tiến hành hòa giải được 1. Bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đã được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn cố tình vắng mặt.
2. Đương sự không thể tham gia hòa giải được vì có lý do chính đáng.
3. Đương sự là vợ hoặc chồng trong vụ án ly hôn là người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự.
4. Một trong các đương sự đề nghị không tiến hành hòa giải.

Section 1118. Original section/article: 208. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải 1. Thẩm phán tiến hành mở phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải giữa các đương sự. Trước khi tiến hành phiên họp, Thẩm phán phải thông báo cho đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự về thời gian, địa điểm tiến hành phiên họp và nội dung của phiên họp.
2. Trường hợp vụ án dân sự không được hòa giải hoặc không tiến hành hòa giải được quy định tại

Section 1119. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Thẩm phán tiến hành phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ mà không tiến hành hòa giải.
3. Đối với vụ án hôn nhân và gia đình liên quan đến người chưa thành niên, trước khi mở phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải giữa các đương sự thì Thẩm phán, Thẩm tra viên được Chánh án Tòa án phân công phải thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ để xác định nguyên nhân của việc phát sinh tranh chấp. Khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán có thể tham khảo ý kiến của cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em về hoàn cảnh gia đình, nguyên nhân phát sinh tranh chấp và nguyện vọng của vợ, chồng, con có liên quan đến vụ án.
Đối với vụ án tranh chấp về nuôi con khi ly hôn hoặc thay đổi người trực tiếp nuôi con sau khi ly hôn, Thẩm phán phải lấy ý kiến của con chưa thành niên từ đủ bảy tuổi trở lên, trường hợp cần thiết có thể mời đại diện cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em chứng kiến, tham gia ý kiến. Việc lấy ý kiến của con chưa thành niên và các thủ tục tố tụng khác đối với người chưa thành niên phải bảo đảm thân thiện, phù hợp với tâm lý, lứa tuổi, mức độ trưởng thành, khả năng nhận thức của người chưa thành niên, bảo đảm quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp, giữ bí mật cá nhân của người chưa thành niên.

Section 1120. Original section/article: 209. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thành phần phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải 1. Thành phần tham gia phiên họp gồm có:
a) Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên họp;
b) Thư ký Tòa án ghi biên bản phiên họp;
c) Các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của các đương sự;
d) Đại diện tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động đối với vụ án lao động khi có yêu cầu của người lao động, trừ vụ án lao động đã có tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động là người đại diện, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho tập thể người lao động, người lao động. Trường hợp đại diện tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động không tham gia hòa giải thì phải có ý kiến bằng văn bản;
đ) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự (nếu có);
e) Người phiên dịch (nếu có).
2. Trường hợp cần thiết, Thẩm phán yêu cầu cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức có liên quan tham gia phiên họp; đối với vụ án về hôn nhân và gia đình, Thẩm phán yêu cầu đại diện cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em, Hội liên hiệp phụ nữ Việt Nam tham gia phiên họp; nếu họ vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
3. Trong vụ án có nhiều đương sự mà có đương sự vắng mặt, nhưng các đương sự có mặt vẫn đồng ý tiến hành phiên họp và việc tiến hành phiên họp đó không ảnh hưởng đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự vắng mặt thì Thẩm phán tiến hành phiên họp giữa các đương sự có mặt; nếu các đương sự đề nghị hoãn phiên hòa giải để có mặt tất cả các đương sự trong vụ án thì Thẩm phán phải hoãn phiên họp. Thẩm phán phải thông báo việc hoãn phiên họp và việc mở lại phiên họp cho đương sự.

Section 1121. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình tự phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải 
1. Trước khi tiến hành phiên họp, Thư ký Tòa án báo cáo Thẩm phán về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người tham gia phiên họp đã được Tòa án thông báo. Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên họp kiểm tra lại sự có mặt và căn cước của những người tham gia, phổ biến cho các đương sự về quyền và nghĩa vụ của họ theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Khi kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ, Thẩm phán công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ có trong hồ sơ vụ án, hỏi đương sự về những vấn đề sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu và phạm vi khởi kiện, việc sửa đổi, bổ sung, thay đổi, rút yêu cầu khởi kiện, yêu cầu phản tố, yêu cầu độc lập; những vấn đề đã thống nhất, những vấn đề chưa thống nhất yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết;
b) Tài liệu, chứng cứ đã giao nộp cho Tòa án và việc gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ cho đương sự khác;
c) Bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ; yêu cầu Tòa án thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ; yêu cầu Tòa án triệu tập đương sự khác, người làm chứng và người tham gia tố tụng khác tại phiên tòa;
d) Những vấn đề khác mà đương sự thấy cần thiết.
3. Sau khi các đương sự đã trình bày xong, Thẩm phán xem xét các ý kiến, giải quyết các yêu cầu của đương sự quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này. Trường hợp người được Tòa án triệu tập vắng mặt thì Tòa án thông báo kết quả phiên họp cho họ.
4. Thủ tục tiến hành hòa giải được thực hiện như sau:
a) Thẩm phán phổ biến cho các đương sự về các quy định của pháp luật có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án để các đương sự liên hệ đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của mình, phân tích hậu quả pháp lý của việc hòa giải thành để họ tự nguyện thỏa thuận với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án;
b) Nguyên đơn, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trình bày nội dung tranh chấp, bổ sung yêu cầu khởi kiện; những căn cứ để bảo vệ yêu cầu khởi kiện và đề xuất quan điểm về những vấn đề cần hòa giải, hướng giải quyết vụ án (nếu có);
c) Bị đơn, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trình bày ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, yêu cầu phản tố (nếu có); những căn cứ để phản đối yêu cầu của nguyên đơn; những căn cứ để bảo vệ yêu cầu phản tố của mình và đề xuất quan điểm về những vấn đề cần hòa giải, hướng giải quyết vụ án (nếu có);
d) Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trình bày ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, bị đơn; trình bày yêu cầu độc lập của mình (nếu có); những căn cứ để phản đối yêu cầu của nguyên đơn, bị đơn; những căn cứ để bảo vệ yêu cầu độc lập của mình và đề xuất quan điểm về những vấn đề cần hòa giải, hướng giải quyết vụ án (nếu có);
đ) Người khác tham gia phiên họp hòa giải (nếu có) phát biểu ý kiến;
e) Sau khi các đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trình bày hết ý kiến của mình, Thẩm phán xác định những vấn đề các đương sự đã thống nhất, chưa thống nhất và yêu cầu các đương sự trình bày bổ sung về những nội dung chưa rõ, chưa thống nhất;
g) Thẩm phán kết luận về những vấn đề các đương sự đã thống nhất, chưa thống nhất.

Section 1122. Original section/article: 211. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Biên bản phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải 
1. Thư ký Tòa án phải lập biên bản về kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và biên bản về việc hòa giải.
2. Biên bản về kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm tiến hành phiên họp;
b) Địa điểm tiến hành phiên họp;
c) Thành phần tham gia phiên họp;
d) Ý kiến của các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của các đương sự về các nội dung quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1123. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
đ) Các nội dung khác;
e) Quyết định của Tòa án về việc chấp nhận, không chấp nhận các yêu cầu của đương sự.
3. Biên bản về việc hòa giải phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Các nội dung quy định tại các điểm a, b và c khoản 2 Điều này;
b) Ý kiến của các đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của các đương sự;
c) Những nội dung đã được các đương sự thống nhất, không thống nhất.
4. Biên bản phải có đầy đủ chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của những người tham gia phiên họp, chữ ký của Thư ký Tòa án ghi biên bản và của Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên họp. Những người tham gia phiên họp có quyền được xem biên bản ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên họp, yêu cầu ghi những sửa đổi, bổ sung vào biên bản và ký xác nhận hoặc điểm chỉ.
5. Trường hợp các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về vấn đề phải giải quyết trong vụ án dân sự thì Tòa án lập biên bản hòa giải thành. Biên bản này được gửi ngay cho các đương sự tham gia hòa giải.

Section 1124. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự 1. Hết thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày lập biên bản hòa giải thành mà không có đương sự nào thay đổi ý kiến về sự thỏa thuận đó thì Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên hòa giải hoặc một Thẩm phán được Chánh án Tòa án phân công phải ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự.
Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
2. Thẩm phán chỉ ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự nếu các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết toàn bộ vụ án.
3. Trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1125. Original section/article: 210. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này mà các đương sự có mặt thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án thì thỏa thuận đó chỉ có giá trị đối với những người có mặt và được Thẩm phán ra quyết định công nhận nếu không ảnh hưởng đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự vắng mặt. Trường hợp thỏa thuận của họ có ảnh hưởng đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự vắng mặt thì thỏa thuận này chỉ có giá trị và được Thẩm phán ra quyết định công nhận nếu được đương sự vắng mặt tại phiên hòa giải đồng ý bằng văn bản.

Section 1126. Original section/article: 213. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự 
1. Quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự có hiệu lực pháp luật ngay sau khi được ban hành và không bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.
2. Quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự chỉ có thể bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm nếu có căn cứ cho rằng sự thỏa thuận đó là do bị nhầm lẫn, lừa dối, đe dọa, cưỡng ép hoặc vi phạm điều cấm của luật, trái đạo đức xã hội.

Section 1127. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự 1. Tòa án ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Đương sự là cá nhân đã chết, cơ quan, tổ chức đã hợp nhất, sáp nhập, chia, tách, giải thể mà chưa có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân kế thừa quyền và nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó;
b) Đương sự là cá nhân mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người chưa thành niên mà chưa xác định được người đại diện theo pháp luật;
c) Chấm dứt đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự mà chưa có người thay thế;
d) Cần đợi kết quả giải quyết vụ án khác có liên quan hoặc sự việc được pháp luật quy định là phải do cơ quan, tổ chức khác giải quyết trước mới giải quyết được vụ án;
đ) Cần đợi kết quả thực hiện ủy thác tư pháp, ủy thác thu thập chứng cứ hoặc đợi cơ quan, tổ chức cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án mới giải quyết được vụ án;
e) Cần đợi kết quả xử lý văn bản quy phạm pháp luật có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên mà Tòa án đã có văn bản kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ;
g) Theo quy định tại

Section 1128. Original section/article: 41. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Luật phá sản;
h) Các trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1129. Original section/article: 215. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của việc tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự 1. Tòa án không xóa tên vụ án dân sự bị tạm đình chỉ giải quyết trong sổ thụ lý mà chỉ ghi chú vào sổ thụ lý số và ngày, tháng, năm của quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự đó.
2. Tiền tạm ứng án phí, lệ phí mà đương sự đã nộp được gửi tại kho bạc nhà nước và được xử lý khi Tòa án tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự.
3. Trường hợp tạm đình chỉ theo quy định tại điểm e khoản 1

Section 1130. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì trước khi tạm đình chỉ, Chánh án Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ án phải có văn bản đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên theo quy định tại

Section 1131. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản kiến nghị của Tòa án, cơ quan có thẩm quyền phải có văn bản trả lời. Hết thời hạn này mà cơ quan có thẩm quyền không có văn bản trả lời thì Tòa án tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án theo thủ tục chung.
4. Trong thời gian tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án vẫn phải có trách nhiệm về việc giải quyết vụ án.
Sau khi có quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1132. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án có trách nhiệm theo dõi, đôn đốc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nhằm khắc phục trong thời gian ngắn nhất những lý do dẫn tới vụ án bị tạm đình chỉ để kịp thời đưa vụ án ra giải quyết.
5. Quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự có thể bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.

Section 1133. Original section/article: 216. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày lý do tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án quy định tại

Section 1134. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này không còn thì Tòa án phải ra quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự và gửi quyết định đó cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
Quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự hết hiệu lực kể từ ngày ban hành quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự. Tòa án tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án kể từ khi ban hành quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự.

Section 1135. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự 1. Sau khi thụ lý vụ án thuộc thẩm quyền của mình, Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Nguyên đơn hoặc bị đơn là cá nhân đã chết mà quyền, nghĩa vụ của họ không được thừa kế;
b) Cơ quan, tổ chức đã bị giải thể, phá sản mà không có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nào kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
c) Người khởi kiện rút toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện hoặc nguyên đơn đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt, trừ trường hợp họ đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt hoặc vì sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan;
d) Đã có quyết định của Tòa án mở thủ tục phá sản đối với doanh nghiệp, hợp tác xã là một bên đương sự trong vụ án mà việc giải quyết vụ án có liên quan đến nghĩa vụ, tài sản của doanh nghiệp, hợp tác xã đó;
đ) Nguyên đơn không nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản và chi phí tố tụng khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp bị đơn có yêu cầu phản tố, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập không nộp tiền tạm ứng chi phí định giá tài sản và chi phí tố tụng khác theo quy định của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án đình chỉ việc giải quyết yêu cầu phản tố của bị đơn, yêu cầu độc lập của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
e) Đương sự có yêu cầu áp dụng thời hiệu trước khi Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm ra bản án, quyết định giải quyết vụ án và thời hiệu khởi kiện đã hết;
g) Các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1136. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này mà Tòa án đã thụ lý;
h) Các trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp nguyên đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện hoặc đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt không có lý do chính đáng, không đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt và trong vụ án đó có bị đơn yêu cầu phản tố, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập thì giải quyết như sau:
a) Bị đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu phản tố, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan rút toàn bộ yêu cầu độc lập thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án;
b) Bị đơn không rút hoặc chỉ rút một phần yêu cầu phản tố thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết đối với yêu cầu khởi kiện của nguyên đơn; bị đơn trở thành nguyên đơn, nguyên đơn trở thành bị đơn;
c) Bị đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu phản tố, người có quyền lợi và nghĩa vụ liên quan không rút hoặc chỉ rút một phần yêu cầu độc lập thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết đối với yêu cầu khởi kiện của nguyên đơn, yêu cầu phản tố của bị đơn; người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trở thành nguyên đơn, người nào bị khởi kiện theo yêu cầu độc lập trở thành bị đơn.
3. Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, xóa tên vụ án đó trong sổ thụ lý và trả lại đơn khởi kiện, tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo cho đương sự nếu có yêu cầu; trong trường hợp này, Tòa án phải sao chụp và lưu lại để làm cơ sở giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị khi có yêu cầu.
Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
4. Đối với vụ án được xét xử lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm sau khi có quyết định giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm mà Tòa án quyết định đình chỉ việc giải quyết vụ án thì Tòa án đồng thời phải giải quyết hậu quả của việc thi hành án, các vấn đề khác có liên quan (nếu có); trường hợp nguyên đơn rút đơn khởi kiện hoặc đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt thì việc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án phải có sự đồng ý của bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.

Section 1137. Original section/article: 218. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của việc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự 1. Khi có quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, đương sự không có quyền khởi kiện yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết lại vụ án dân sự đó, nếu việc khởi kiện vụ án sau không có gì khác với vụ án trước về nguyên đơn, bị đơn và quan hệ pháp luật có tranh chấp, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1138. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và các trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự theo quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản 1

Section 1139. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
hoặc vì lý do nguyên đơn đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt quy định tại điểm c khoản 1

Section 1140. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì tiền tạm ứng án phí mà đương sự đã nộp được sung vào công quỹ nhà nước.
3. Trường hợp Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự do người khởi kiện rút toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện quy định tại điểm c và trường hợp khác quy định tại các điểm d, đ, e và g khoản 1

Section 1141. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì tiền tạm ứng án phí mà đương sự đã nộp được trả lại cho họ.
4. Quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự có thể bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.

Section 1142. Original section/article: 219. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án dân sự có thẩm quyền ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự.
2. Tại phiên tòa, Hội đồng xét xử có thẩm quyền ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự.

Section 1143. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử 1. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định;
b) Tên Tòa án ra quyết định;
c) Vụ án được đưa ra xét xử;
d) Tên, địa chỉ của nguyên đơn, bị đơn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện quy định tại

Section 1144. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
đ) Họ, tên Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Thư ký Tòa án; họ, tên Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân dự khuyết (nếu có);
e) Họ, tên Kiểm sát viên tham gia phiên tòa; họ, tên Kiểm sát viên dự khuyết (nếu có);
g) Ngày, giờ, tháng, năm, địa điểm mở phiên tòa;
h) Xét xử công khai hoặc xét xử kín;
i) Họ, tên người được triệu tập tham gia phiên tòa.
2. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phải được gửi cho đương sự và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định.
Trường hợp Viện kiểm sát tham gia phiên tòa theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1145. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án phải gửi hồ sơ vụ án cùng quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp; trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ, Viện kiểm sát phải nghiên cứu và trả lại hồ sơ cho Tòa án.

Section 1146. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phát hiện và kiến nghị sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc hủy bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật 1. Trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án dân sự, nếu phát hiện văn bản quy phạm pháp luật liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án dân sự có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên thì Tòa án thực hiện như sau:
a) Trường hợp chưa có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử thì Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án báo cáo và đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ án có văn bản đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật;
b) Trường hợp đã có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử hoặc vụ án đang được xem xét tại phiên tòa hoặc đang được xét xử theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm thì Hội đồng xét xử tạm ngừng phiên tòa theo quy định tại điểm e khoản 1

Section 1147. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và báo cáo Chánh án Tòa
án đang giải quyết vụ án có văn bản đề nghị Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật.
2. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản đề nghị của Chánh án Tòa án cấp dưới thì Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải xem xét và xử lý như sau:
a) Trường hợp đề nghị có căn cứ thì phải ra văn bản kiến nghị gửi cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật và thông báo cho Tòa án đã đề nghị để ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án;
b) Trường hợp đề nghị không có căn cứ thì phải ra văn bản trả lời cho Tòa án đã đề nghị để tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án theo đúng quy định của pháp luật.
3. Cơ quan nhận được kiến nghị của Tòa án về việc sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật có trách nhiệm giải quyết như sau:
a) Đối với văn bản quy phạm pháp luật quy định chi tiết, hướng dẫn thi hành Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên bị kiến nghị xem xét thì trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được kiến nghị của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, cơ quan đã ban hành văn bản đó phải xem xét và trả lời bằng văn bản cho Tòa án nhân dân tối cao; nếu quá thời hạn này mà không nhận được văn bản trả lời thì Tòa án áp dụng văn bản có hiệu lực cao hơn để giải quyết vụ án;
b) Trường hợp kiến nghị xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật là luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ của Quốc hội thì thực hiện theo quy định của Luật ban hành văn bản quy phạm pháp luật.
Chương XIV PHIÊN TÒA SƠ THẨM 
Mục 1. QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG VỀ PHIÊN TÒA SƠ THẨM

Section 1148. Original section/article: 222. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu chung đối với phiên tòa sơ thẩm Phiên tòa sơ thẩm phải được tiến hành đúng thời gian, địa điểm đã được ghi trong quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử hoặc trong giấy báo mở lại phiên tòa trong trường hợp phải hoãn phiên tòa.

Section 1149. Original section/article: 223. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Địa điểm tổ chức phiên tòa Phiên tòa được tổ chức tại trụ sở Tòa án hoặc có thể ngoài trụ sở Tòa án nhưng phải bảo đảm tính trang nghiêm và hình thức phòng xử án quy định tại

Section 1150. Original section/article: 224. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hình thức bố trí phòng xử án 1. Quốc huy nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam được treo chính giữa phía trên phòng xử án và phía trên chỗ ngồi của Hội đồng xét xử.
2. Phòng xử án phải có các khu vực được bố trí riêng cho Hội đồng xét xử, Kiểm sát viên, Thư ký Tòa án, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, những người tham gia tố tụng khác và người tham dự phiên tòa.

Section 1151. Original section/article: 225. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xét xử trực tiếp, bằng lời nói 1. Tòa án phải trực tiếp xác định những tình tiết của vụ án bằng cách nghe lời trình bày của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến vụ án, người đại diện hợp pháp,
người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự và những người tham gia tố tụng khác, cơ quan, tổ chức được mời tham dự phiên tòa; hỏi và nghe trả lời câu hỏi; xem xét, kiểm tra tài liệu, chứng cứ đã thu thập được; điều hành và nghe tranh luận giữa các đương sự; nghe Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát.
2. Việc xét xử phải bằng lời nói và được tiến hành tại phòng xử án.

Section 1152. Original section/article: 226. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay thế thành viên Hội đồng xét xử trong trường hợp đặc biệt 1. Trường hợp có Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân không thể tiếp tục tham gia xét xử vụ án nhưng có Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân dự khuyết thì những người này được tham gia xét xử tiếp vụ án nếu họ có mặt tại phiên tòa từ đầu.
Trường hợp Hội đồng xét xử có hai Thẩm phán mà Thẩm phán chủ toạ phiên tòa không thể tiếp tục tham gia xét xử vụ án thì Thẩm phán là thành viên Hội đồng xét xử làm chủ toạ phiên tòa và Thẩm phán dự khuyết được bổ sung làm thành viên Hội đồng xét xử.
2. Trường hợp không có Thẩm phán hoặc Hội thẩm nhân dân dự khuyết để thay thế thành viên Hội đồng xét xử hoặc phải thay đổi Thẩm phán chủ tọa phiên tòa mà không có Thẩm phán để thay thế theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì vụ án phải được xét xử lại từ đầu.

Section 1153. Original section/article: 227. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sự có mặt của đương sự, người đại diện, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự 1. Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ nhất, đương sự hoặc người đại diện của họ, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự phải có mặt tại phiên tòa; nếu có người vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử phải hoãn phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp người đó có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt.
Tòa án phải thông báo cho đương sự, người đại diện, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự về việc hoãn phiên tòa.
2. Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai, đương sự hoặc người đại diện của họ, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự phải có mặt tại phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp họ có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt; nếu vắng mặt vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan thì Tòa án có thể hoãn phiên tòa, nếu không vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan thì xử lý như sau:
a) Nguyên đơn vắng mặt mà không có người đại diện tham gia phiên tòa thì bị coi là từ bỏ việc khởi kiện và Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án đối với yêu cầu khởi kiện của người đó, trừ trường hợp người đó có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt. Nguyên đơn có quyền khởi kiện lại theo quy định của pháp luật;
b) Bị đơn không có yêu cầu phản tố, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không có yêu cầu độc lập vắng mặt mà không có người đại diện tham gia phiên tòa thì Tòa án tiến hành xét xử vắng mặt họ;
c) Bị đơn có yêu cầu phản tố vắng mặt mà không có người đại diện tham gia phiên tòa thì bị coi là từ bỏ yêu cầu phản tố và Tòa án quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết đối với yêu cầu phản tố, trừ trường hợp bị đơn có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt. Bị đơn có quyền khởi kiện lại đối với yêu cầu phản tố đó theo quy định của pháp luật;
d) Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập vắng mặt mà không có người đại diện tham gia phiên tòa thì bị coi là từ bỏ yêu cầu độc lập và Tòa án quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết đối với yêu cầu độc lập của người đó, trừ trường hợp người đó có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng
mặt. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập có quyền khởi kiện lại đối với yêu cầu độc lập đó theo quy định của pháp luật;
đ) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành xét xử vắng mặt họ.

Section 1154. Original section/article: 228. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xét xử trong trường hợp đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích của đương sự vắng mặt tại phiên tòa Tòa án vẫn tiến hành xét xử vụ án trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và người đại diện của họ vắng mặt tại phiên tòa có đơn đề nghị Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt.
2. Nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan vắng mặt tại phiên tòa nhưng có người đại diện tham gia phiên tòa.
3. Các trường hợp quy định tại các điểm b, c, d và đ khoản 2

Section 1155. Original section/article: 229. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sự có mặt của người làm chứng 1. Người làm chứng có nghĩa vụ tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án.
2. Trường hợp người làm chứng vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định vẫn tiến hành xét xử hoặc hoãn phiên tòa.
Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành xét xử trong trường hợp người làm chứng vắng mặt nhưng trước đó họ đã có lời khai trực tiếp với Tòa án hoặc gửi lời khai cho Tòa án. Chủ toạ phiên tòa công bố lời khai đó.
Hội đồng xét xử quyết định hoãn phiên tòa nếu việc vắng mặt của người làm chứng tại phiên tòa gây khó khăn, ảnh hưởng đến việc giải quyết khách quan, toàn diện vụ án.
3. Người làm chứng vắng mặt tại phiên tòa không có lý do chính đáng và việc vắng mặt của họ gây cản trở cho việc xét xử thì có thể bị dẫn giải đến phiên tòa theo quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử, trừ trường hợp người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên.

Section 1156. Original section/article: 230. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sự có mặt của người giám định 1. Người giám định có nghĩa vụ tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án để giải thích, trả lời những vấn đề liên quan đến việc giám định và kết luận giám định.
2. Trường hợp người giám định vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định vẫn tiến hành xét xử hoặc hoãn phiên tòa.

Section 1157. Original section/article: 231. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sự có mặt của người phiên dịch 1. Người phiên dịch có nghĩa vụ tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án.
2. Trường hợp người phiên dịch vắng mặt mà không có người khác thay thế thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định hoãn phiên tòa.

Section 1158. Original section/article: 232. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sự có mặt của Kiểm sát viên 1. Kiểm sát viên được Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phân công có nhiệm vụ tham gia phiên tòa; nếu Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành xét xử, không hoãn phiên tòa.
2. Trường hợp Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi tại phiên tòa hoặc không thể tiếp tục tham gia phiên tòa xét xử, nhưng có Kiểm sát viên dự khuyết thì người này được tham gia phiên tòa xét xử tiếp vụ án nếu họ có mặt tại phiên tòa từ đầu.

Section 1159. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn hoãn phiên tòa và quyết định hoãn phiên tòa 1. Hội đồng xét xử quyết định hoãn phiên tòa trong các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1160. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Thời hạn hoãn phiên tòa là không quá 01 tháng, đối với phiên tòa xét xử vụ án theo thủ tục rút gọn là không quá 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định hoãn phiên tòa.
2. Quyết định hoãn phiên tòa phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định;
b) Tên Tòa án và họ, tên những người tiến hành tố tụng;
c) Vụ án được đưa ra xét xử;
d) Lý do của việc hoãn phiên tòa;
đ) Thời gian, địa điểm mở lại phiên tòa.
3. Quyết định hoãn phiên tòa phải được chủ tọa phiên tòa thay mặt Hội đồng xét xử ký tên và thông báo công khai tại phiên tòa; đối với người vắng mặt thì Tòa án gửi ngay cho họ quyết định đó, đồng thời gửi cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
4. Trường hợp sau khi hoãn phiên tòa mà Tòa án không thể mở lại phiên tòa đúng thời gian, địa điểm mở lại phiên tòa ghi trong quyết định hoãn phiên tòa thì Tòa án phải thông báo ngay cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và những người tham gia tố tụng về thời gian, địa điểm mở lại phiên tòa.

Section 1161. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nội quy phiên tòa 1. Khi vào phòng xử án, mọi người đều phải chấp hành việc kiểm tra an ninh của lực lượng có trách nhiệm bảo vệ phiên tòa.
2. Nghiêm cấm mang vào phòng xử án vũ khí, hung khí, chất nổ, chất cháy, chất độc, chất phóng xạ, đồ vật cấm lưu hành, truyền đơn, khẩu hiệu và tài liệu, đồ vật khác ảnh hưởng đến sự tôn nghiêm của phiên tòa, trừ vật chứng của vụ án phục vụ cho công tác xét xử hoặc vũ khí, công cụ hỗ trợ được người có thẩm quyền mang theo để làm nhiệm vụ bảo vệ phiên tòa.
3. Người tham gia phiên tòa theo yêu cầu của Tòa án phải xuất trình giấy triệu tập, giấy mời, các giấy tờ có liên quan khác cho Thư ký phiên tòa tại bàn thư ký chậm nhất là 15 phút trước giờ khai mạc phiên tòa và ngồi đúng vị trí trong phòng xử án theo hướng dẫn của Thư ký phiên tòa; trường hợp đến muộn thì phải xuất trình giấy triệu tập, giấy mời, các giấy tờ có liên quan khác cho Thư ký phiên tòa thông qua lực lượng làm nhiệm vụ bảo vệ phiên tòa.
4. Nhà báo tham dự phiên tòa để đưa tin về diễn biến phiên tòa phải chấp hành sự điều khiển của chủ tọa phiên tòa về khu vực tác nghiệp. Nhà báo ghi âm lời nói, ghi hình ảnh của Hội đồng xét xử phải được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa. Việc ghi âm lời nói, ghi hình ảnh của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác phải được sự đồng ý của họ.
5. Mọi người tham dự phiên tòa phải có trang phục nghiêm chỉnh; có thái độ tôn trọng Hội đồng xét xử, giữ trật tự và tuân theo sự điều khiển của chủ tọa phiên tòa.
6. Không đội mũ, nón, đeo kính màu trong phòng xử án, trừ trường hợp có lý do chính đáng và được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa; không sử dụng điện thoại di động, không hút thuốc, không ăn uống trong phòng xử án hoặc có hành vi khác ảnh hưởng đến sự tôn nghiêm của phiên tòa.
7. Người tham gia phiên tòa theo yêu cầu của Tòa án phải có mặt tại phiên tòa trong suốt thời gian xét xử vụ án, trừ trường hợp được chủ tọa phiên tòa đồng ý cho rời khỏi phòng xử án khi có lý do chính đáng.
Người dưới mười sáu tuổi không được vào phòng xử án, trừ trường hợp được Tòa án triệu tập tham gia phiên tòa.
8. Mọi người trong phòng xử án phải đứng dậy khi Hội đồng xét xử vào phòng xử án và khi tuyên án, trừ trường hợp đặc biệt được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa.
9. Chỉ những người được Hội đồng xét xử đồng ý mới được hỏi, trả lời hoặc phát biểu. Người hỏi, trả lời hoặc phát biểu phải đứng dậy, trừ trường hợp vì lý do sức khỏe được chủ tọa phiên tòa đồng ý cho ngồi để hỏi, trả lời, phát biểu.

Section 1162. Original section/article: 235. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục ra bản án và quyết định của Tòa án tại phiên tòa 1. Bản án phải được Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận và thông qua tại phòng nghị án.
2. Quyết định thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người giám định, người phiên dịch, chuyển vụ án, tạm đình chỉ hoặc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án, hoãn phiên tòa, quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự, tạm ngừng phiên tòa phải được Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận, thông qua tại phòng nghị án và lập thành văn bản.
3. Quyết định về các vấn đề khác được Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận và thông qua tại phòng xử án, không phải lập thành văn bản nhưng phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa.

Section 1163. Original section/article: 236. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Biên bản phiên tòa 1. Biên bản phiên tòa phải ghi đầy đủ các nội dung sau đây:
a) Các nội dung chính trong quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1164. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Mọi diễn biến tại phiên tòa từ khi bắt đầu cho đến khi kết thúc phiên tòa;
c) Các câu hỏi, câu trả lời và phát biểu tại phiên tòa.
2. Ngoài việc ghi biên bản phiên tòa, Hội đồng xét xử có thể thực hiện việc ghi âm, ghi hình về diễn biến phiên tòa.
3. Sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, chủ tọa phiên tòa phải kiểm tra biên bản và cùng với Thư ký phiên tòa ký biên bản đó.
4. Kiểm sát viên và những người tham gia tố tụng có quyền được xem biên bản phiên tòa ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, yêu cầu ghi những sửa đổi, bổ sung vào biên bản phiên tòa và ký xác nhận.

Section 1165. Original section/article: 237. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị khai mạc phiên tòa Trước khi khai mạc phiên tòa, Thư ký phiên tòa phải tiến hành các công việc sau đây:
1. Phổ biến nội quy phiên tòa.
2. Kiểm tra, xác định sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập, giấy báo của Tòa án; nếu có người vắng mặt thì phải làm rõ lý do.
3. Ổn định trật tự trong phòng xử án.
4. Yêu cầu mọi người trong phòng xử án đứng dậy khi Hội đồng xét xử vào phòng xử án.

Section 1166. Original section/article: 238. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục xét xử vắng mặt tất cả những người tham gia tố tụng 1. Tòa án căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ có trong hồ sơ để xét xử vắng mặt đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác theo quy định của pháp luật khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Nguyên đơn, người đại diện hợp pháp của nguyên đơn có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt;
b) Bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan; người đại diện hợp pháp của bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt hoặc đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt;
c) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt hoặc đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt.
2. Chủ tọa phiên tòa công bố lý do đương sự vắng mặt hoặc đơn của đương sự đề nghị Hội đồng xét xử vắng mặt.
3. Chủ tọa phiên tòa công bố tóm tắt nội dung vụ án và tài liệu, chứng cứ có trong hồ sơ vụ án. Hội đồng xét xử thảo luận về những vấn đề cần giải quyết trong vụ án.
4. Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát.
5. Hội đồng xét xử tiến hành nghị án và tuyên án theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Mục 2. THỦ TỤC BẮT ĐẦU PHIÊN TÒA

Section 1167. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Khai mạc phiên tòa 1. Chủ tọa phiên tòa khai mạc phiên tòa và đọc quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử.
2. Thư ký phiên tòa báo cáo Hội đồng xét xử về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập, giấy báo của Tòa án và lý do vắng mặt.
3. Chủ tọa phiên tòa kiểm tra lại sự có mặt của những người tham gia phiên tòa theo giấy triệu tập, giấy báo của Tòa án và kiểm tra căn cước của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác.
4. Chủ tọa phiên tòa phổ biến quyền, nghĩa vụ của đương sự và của người tham gia tố tụng khác.
5. Chủ toạ phiên tòa giới thiệu họ, tên những người tiến hành tố tụng, người giám định, người phiên dịch.
6. Chủ tọa phiên tòa hỏi những người có quyền yêu cầu thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người giám định, người phiên dịch xem họ có yêu cầu thay đổi ai không.
7. Yêu cầu người làm chứng cam kết khai báo đúng sự thật, nếu khai không đúng phải chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật, trừ trường hợp người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên.
8. Yêu cầu người giám định, người phiên dịch cam kết cung cấp kết quả giám định chính xác, phiên dịch đúng nội dung cần phiên dịch.

Section 1168. Original section/article: 240. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giải quyết yêu cầu thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người giám định, người phiên dịch Trường hợp có người yêu cầu thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng, người giám định, người phiên dịch thì Hội đồng xét xử phải xem xét, quyết định theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định và có thể chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận; trường hợp không chấp nhận thì phải nêu rõ lý do.

Section 1169. Original section/article: 241. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xem xét, quyết định hoãn phiên tòa khi có người vắng mặt Khi có người tham gia tố tụng vắng mặt tại phiên tòa mà không thuộc trường hợp Tòa án phải hoãn phiên tòa thì chủ tọa phiên tòa phải hỏi xem có ai đề nghị hoãn phiên tòa hay không; nếu có người đề nghị thì Hội đồng xét xử xem xét, quyết định theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định và có thể chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận; trường hợp không chấp nhận thì phải nêu rõ lý do.

Section 1170. Original section/article: 242. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm tính khách quan của người làm chứng 1. Trước khi hỏi người làm chứng về những vấn đề mà họ biết có liên quan đến việc giải quyết vụ án, chủ tọa phiên tòa có thể quyết định những biện pháp cần thiết để những người làm chứng không nghe được lời khai của nhau hoặc tiếp xúc với những người có liên quan.
2. Trường hợp lời khai của đương sự và người làm chứng có ảnh hưởng lẫn nhau thì chủ tọa phiên tòa có thể quyết định cách ly đương sự với người làm chứng trước khi hỏi người làm chứng.

Section 1171. Original section/article: 243. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi đương sự về việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút yêu cầu Thủ tục hỏi đương sự về việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút yêu cầu được bắt đầu bằng việc chủ tọa phiên tòa hỏi đương sự về các vấn đề sau đây:
1. Hỏi nguyên đơn có thay đổi, bổ sung, rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện hay không.
2. Hỏi bị đơn có thay đổi, bổ sung, rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu phản tố hay không.
3. Hỏi người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có yêu cầu độc lập có thay đổi, bổ sung, rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu độc lập hay không.

Section 1172. Original section/article: 244. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xem xét việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút yêu cầu 1. Hội đồng xét xử chấp nhận việc thay đổi, bổ sung yêu cầu của đương sự nếu việc thay đổi, bổ sung yêu cầu của họ không vượt quá phạm vi yêu cầu khởi kiện, yêu cầu phản tố hoặc yêu cầu độc lập ban đầu.
2. Trường hợp có đương sự rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu của mình và việc rút yêu cầu của họ là tự nguyện thì Hội đồng xét xử chấp nhận và đình chỉ xét xử đối với phần yêu cầu hoặc toàn bộ yêu cầu đương sự đã rút.

Section 1173. Original section/article: 245. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi địa vị tố tụng 1. Trường hợp nguyên đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện, nhưng bị đơn vẫn giữ nguyên yêu cầu phản tố của mình thì bị đơn trở thành nguyên đơn và nguyên đơn trở thành bị đơn.
2. Trường hợp nguyên đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu khởi kiện, bị đơn rút toàn bộ yêu cầu phản tố, nhưng người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan vẫn giữ nguyên yêu cầu độc lập của mình thì người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trở thành nguyên đơn, người bị khởi kiện theo yêu cầu độc lập trở thành bị đơn.

Section 1174. Original section/article: 246. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự 
1. Chủ tọa phiên tòa hỏi các đương sự có thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án hay không; trường hợp các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án và thỏa thuận của họ là tự nguyện, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật và không trái đạo đức xã hội thì Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự về việc giải quyết vụ án.
2. Quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự về việc giải quyết vụ án có hiệu lực pháp luật theo quy định tại

Section 1175. Original section/article: 213. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Mục 3. TRANH TỤNG TẠI PHIÊN TÒA

Section 1176. Original section/article: 247. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nội dung và phương thức tranh tụng tại phiên tòa 1. Tranh tụng tại phiên tòa bao gồm việc trình bày chứng cứ, hỏi, đối đáp, trả lời và phát biểu quan điểm, lập luận về đánh giá chứng cứ, tình tiết của vụ án dân sự, quan hệ pháp luật tranh chấp và pháp luật áp dụng để giải quyết yêu cầu của các đương sự trong vụ án.
2. Việc tranh tụng tại phiên tòa được tiến hành theo sự điều khiển của chủ tọa phiên tòa.
3. Chủ tọa phiên tòa không được hạn chế thời gian tranh tụng, tạo điều kiện cho những người tham gia tranh tụng trình bày hết ý kiến nhưng có quyền yêu cầu họ dừng trình bày những ý kiến không có liên quan đến vụ án dân sự.

Section 1177. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình bày của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự 1. Trường hợp có đương sự vẫn giữ nguyên yêu cầu của mình và các đương sự không tự thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án thì các đương sự trình bày theo trình tự sau đây:
a) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn trình bày về yêu cầu và chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu của nguyên đơn là có căn cứ và hợp pháp. Nguyên đơn có quyền bổ sung ý kiến.
Trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức khởi kiện vụ án thì đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức trình bày về yêu cầu và chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu khởi kiện là có căn cứ và hợp pháp;
b) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn trình bày ý kiến của bị đơn đối với yêu cầu của nguyên đơn; yêu cầu phản tố, đề nghị của bị đơn và chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu, đề nghị đó là có căn cứ và hợp pháp. Bị đơn có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
c) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trình bày ý kiến của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đối với yêu cầu, đề nghị của nguyên đơn, bị đơn; yêu cầu độc lập, đề nghị của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu, đề nghị đó là có căn cứ và hợp pháp. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền bổ sung ý kiến.
2. Trường hợp nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không có người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho mình thì họ tự trình bày về yêu cầu, đề nghị của mình và chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu, đề nghị đó là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.
3. Tại phiên tòa, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự chỉ có quyền bổ sung chứng cứ theo quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1178. Original section/article: 96. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này để chứng minh cho yêu cầu, đề nghị của mình.

Section 1179. Original section/article: 249. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thứ tự và nguyên tắc hỏi tại phiên tòa 
1. Sau khi nghe xong lời trình bày của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự theo quy định tại

Section 1180. Original section/article: 248. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, theo sự điều hành của chủ tọa phiên tòa, thứ tự hỏi của từng người được thực hiện như sau:
a) Nguyên đơn, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn hỏi trước, tiếp đến bị đơn, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn, sau đó là người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
b) Những người tham gia tố tụng khác;
c) Chủ tọa phiên tòa, Hội thẩm nhân dân;
d) Kiểm sát viên tham gia phiên tòa.
2. Việc đặt câu hỏi phải rõ ràng, nghiêm túc, không trùng lắp, không lợi dụng việc hỏi và trả lời để xâm phạm danh dự, nhân phẩm của những người tham gia tố tụng.

Section 1181. Original section/article: 250. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi nguyên đơn 1. Trường hợp có nhiều nguyên đơn thì phải hỏi riêng từng nguyên đơn.
2. Chỉ hỏi nguyên đơn về những vấn đề mà người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn, nguyên đơn trình bày chưa rõ, có mâu thuẫn với nhau hoặc mâu thuẫn với lời khai của họ trước đó, mâu thuẫn với lời trình bày của bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của những người này.
3. Nguyên đơn có thể tự mình trả lời hoặc người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn trả lời thay cho nguyên đơn và sau đó nguyên đơn trả lời bổ sung.

Section 1182. Original section/article: 251. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi bị đơn 1. Trường hợp có nhiều bị đơn thì phải hỏi riêng từng bị đơn.
2. Chỉ hỏi bị đơn về những vấn đề mà người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn, bị đơn trình bày chưa rõ, có mâu thuẫn với nhau hoặc mâu thuẫn với lời khai của họ trước đó, mâu thuẫn với yêu cầu, lời trình bày của nguyên đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của những người này.
3. Bị đơn có thể tự mình trả lời hoặc người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn trả lời thay cho bị đơn và sau đó bị đơn trả lời bổ sung.

Section 1183. Original section/article: 252. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan 1. Trường hợp có nhiều người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan thì phải hỏi riêng từng người một.
2. Chỉ hỏi người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan về những vấn đề mà họ, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trình bày chưa rõ, có mâu thuẫn với nhau hoặc mâu thuẫn với lời khai của họ trước đó, mâu thuẫn với yêu cầu, đề nghị, lời trình bày của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của những người này.
3. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có thể tự mình trả lời hoặc người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ trả lời thay cho họ và sau đó họ trả lời bổ sung.

Section 1184. Original section/article: 253. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi người làm chứng 
1. Trước khi hỏi người làm chứng, chủ tọa phiên tòa phải hỏi rõ về quan hệ giữa họ với các đương sự trong vụ án; nếu người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên thì chủ tọa phiên tòa có thể yêu cầu cha, mẹ, người giám hộ hoặc thầy giáo, cô giáo giúp đỡ để hỏi. Trường hợp có nhiều người làm chứng thì phải hỏi riêng từng người một.
2. Chủ tọa phiên tòa yêu cầu người làm chứng trình bày rõ những tình tiết của vụ án mà họ biết; sau khi người làm chứng trình bày xong thì chỉ hỏi thêm người làm chứng về những điểm mà họ trình bày chưa rõ, chưa đầy đủ hoặc có mâu thuẫn với nhau, mâu thuẫn với lời khai của họ trước đó, mâu thuẫn với lời trình bày của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự.
3. Sau khi đã trình bày xong, người làm chứng ở lại phòng xử án để có thể được hỏi thêm.
4. Trong trường hợp cần thiết phải bảo đảm an toàn cho người làm chứng và những người thân thích của họ, Hội đồng xét xử quyết định không tiết lộ thông tin về nhân thân của người làm chứng và không để những người trong phiên tòa nhìn thấy họ.
5. Đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự hỏi người làm chứng sau khi được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa.

Section 1185. Original section/article: 254. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ của vụ án 1. Hội đồng xét xử công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ của vụ án trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người tham gia tố tụng không có mặt tại phiên tòa nhưng đã có lời khai trong giai đoạn chuẩn bị xét xử;
b) Lời khai của người tham gia tố tụng tại phiên tòa mâu thuẫn với lời khai trước đó;
c) Trong các trường hợp khác mà Hội đồng xét xử thấy cần thiết hoặc có yêu cầu của Kiểm sát viên, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác.
2. Trường hợp đặc biệt cần giữ bí mật nhà nước, giữ gìn thuần phong mỹ tục của dân tộc, giữ bí mật nghề nghiệp, bí mật kinh doanh, bí mật cá nhân, bí mật gia đình, bảo vệ người chưa thành niên theo yêu cầu của đương sự thì Hội đồng xét xử không công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ có trong hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1186. Original section/article: 255. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghe băng ghi âm, đĩa ghi âm, xem băng ghi hình, đĩa ghi hình, thiết bị khác chứa âm thanh, hình ảnh Theo yêu cầu của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác, Kiểm sát viên hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Hội đồng xét xử cho nghe băng ghi âm, đĩa ghi âm, xem băng ghi hình, đĩa ghi hình, thiết bị khác chứa âm thanh, hình ảnh tại phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1187. Original section/article: 256. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xem xét vật chứng Vật chứng, ảnh hoặc biên bản xác nhận vật chứng được đưa ra để xem xét tại phiên tòa.
Khi cần thiết, Hội đồng xét xử có thể cùng với đương sự đến xem xét tại chỗ vật chứng không thể đưa đến phiên tòa được.

Section 1188. Original section/article: 257. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi người giám định 
1. Chủ tọa phiên tòa yêu cầu người giám định trình bày kết luận của mình về vấn đề được yêu cầu giám định. Khi trình bày, người giám định có quyền giải thích về kết luận giám định, các căn cứ để đưa ra kết luận giám định.
2. Kiểm sát viên, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, người tham gia tố tụng khác có mặt tại phiên tòa có quyền nhận xét về kết luận giám định; hỏi những vấn đề còn chưa rõ hoặc có mâu thuẫn trong kết luận giám định hoặc có mâu thuẫn với những tình tiết khác của vụ án sau khi được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa.
3. Trường hợp người giám định không có mặt tại phiên tòa thì chủ tọa phiên tòa công bố kết luận giám định.
4. Khi có đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự không đồng ý với kết luận giám định được công bố tại phiên tòa và có yêu cầu giám định bổ sung hoặc giám định lại, nếu xét thấy việc giám định bổ sung, giám định lại là cần thiết cho việc giải quyết vụ án thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định giám định bổ sung, giám định lại; trong trường hợp này, Hội đồng xét xử quyết định tạm ngừng phiên tòa theo quy định tại điểm d khoản 1

Section 1189. Original section/article: 258. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kết thúc việc hỏi tại phiên tòa Khi nhận thấy các tình tiết của vụ án đã được xem xét đầy đủ thì chủ tọa phiên tòa hỏi Kiểm sát viên, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự và những người tham gia tố tụng khác xem họ có yêu cầu hỏi vấn đề gì nữa không; trường hợp có người yêu cầu và xét thấy yêu cầu đó là có căn cứ thì chủ tọa phiên tòa quyết định tiếp tục việc hỏi.

Section 1190. Original section/article: 259. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm ngừng phiên tòa 1. Trong quá trình xét xử, Hội đồng xét xử có quyền quyết định tạm ngừng phiên tòa khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Do tình trạng sức khỏe hoặc do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan khác mà người tiến hành tố tụng không thể tiếp tục tiến hành phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp thay thế được người tiến hành tố tụng;
b) Do tình trạng sức khỏe hoặc do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan khác mà người tham gia tố tụng không thể tiếp tục tham gia phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp người tham gia tố tụng có yêu cầu xét xử vắng mặt;
c) Cần phải xác minh, thu thập bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ mà nếu không thực hiện thì không thể giải quyết được vụ án và không thể thực hiện được ngay tại phiên tòa;
d) Chờ kết quả giám định bổ sung, giám định lại;
đ) Các đương sự thống nhất đề nghị Tòa án tạm ngừng phiên tòa để họ tự hòa giải;
e) Cần phải báo cáo Chánh án Tòa án để đề nghị sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật theo quy định tại

Section 1191. Original section/article: 221. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Việc tạm ngừng phiên tòa phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa. Thời hạn tạm ngừng phiên tòa là không quá 01 tháng, kể từ ngày Hội đồng xét xử quyết định tạm ngừng phiên tòa. Hết thời hạn này, nếu lý do để ngừng phiên tòa không còn thì Hội đồng xét xử tiếp tục tiến hành phiên tòa; nếu lý do để ngừng phiên tòa chưa được khắc phục thì Hội đồng xét xử ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự. Hội đồng xét xử phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho những người tham gia tố tụng và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp về thời gian tiếp tục phiên tòa.

Section 1192. Original section/article: 260. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình tự phát biểu khi tranh luận 1. Sau khi kết thúc việc hỏi, Hội đồng xét xử chuyển sang phần tranh luận tại phiên tòa. Trình tự phát biểu khi tranh luận được thực hiện như sau:
a) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn trình bày. Nguyên đơn có quyền bổ sung ý kiến. Trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức khởi kiện thì đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức trình bày ý kiến. Người có quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp được bảo vệ có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
b) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn tranh luận, đối đáp. Bị đơn có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
c) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trình bày. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
d) Các đương sự đối đáp theo sự điều khiển của chủ tọa phiên tòa;
đ) Khi xét thấy cần thiết, Hội đồng xét xử có thể yêu cầu các đương sự tranh luận bổ sung về những vấn đề cụ thể để làm căn cứ giải quyết vụ án.
2. Trường hợp nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không có người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp thì họ tự mình trình bày khi tranh luận.
3. Trường hợp vắng mặt một trong các đương sự và người tham gia tố tụng khác thì chủ tọa phiên tòa phải công bố lời khai của họ để trên cơ sở đó các đương sự có mặt tại phiên tòa tranh luận và đối đáp.

Section 1193. Original section/article: 261. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phát biểu khi tranh luận và đối đáp Khi phát biểu về đánh giá chứng cứ, đề xuất quan điểm của mình về việc giải quyết vụ án, người tham gia tranh luận phải căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ đã thu thập được và đã được xem xét, kiểm tra tại phiên tòa cũng như kết quả việc hỏi tại phiên tòa. Người tham gia tranh luận có quyền đáp lại ý kiến của người khác.

Section 1194. Original section/article: 262. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phát biểu của Kiểm sát viên Sau khi những người tham gia tố tụng phát biểu tranh luận và đối đáp xong, Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến về việc tuân theo pháp luật tố tụng của Thẩm phán, Hội đồng xét xử, Thư ký phiên tòa và của người tham gia tố tụng trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án kể từ khi thụ lý cho đến trước thời điểm Hội đồng xét xử nghị án và phát biểu ý kiến về việc giải quyết vụ án.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, Kiểm sát viên phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1195. Original section/article: 263. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trở lại việc hỏi và tranh luận Qua tranh luận, nếu xét thấy có tình tiết của vụ án chưa được xem xét, việc xem xét chưa được đầy đủ hoặc cần xem xét thêm chứng cứ thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định trở lại việc hỏi và tranh luận.
Mục 4. NGHỊ ÁN VÀ TUYÊN ÁN

Section 1196. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghị án 1. Sau khi kết thúc phần tranh luận, Hội đồng xét xử vào phòng nghị án để nghị án.
2. Chỉ có các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử mới có quyền nghị án. Khi nghị án, các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử phải căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ đã được xem xét tại phiên tòa, kết quả tranh tụng tại phiên tòa, các quy định của pháp luật, nếu vụ án thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1197. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì còn phải căn cứ vào tập quán, tương tự pháp luật, những nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự, án lệ hoặc lẽ công bằng, để giải quyết tất cả các vấn đề của vụ án bằng cách biểu quyết theo đa số về từng vấn đề. Hội thẩm nhân dân biểu quyết trước, Thẩm phán chủ tọa phiên tòa biểu quyết sau cùng. Người có ý kiến thiểu số có quyền trình bày ý kiến của mình bằng văn bản và được đưa vào hồ sơ vụ án.
3. Khi nghị án phải có biên bản ghi lại các ý kiến đã thảo luận và quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử. Biên bản nghị án phải được các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử ký tên tại phòng nghị án trước khi tuyên án.
4. Trường hợp vụ án có nhiều tình tiết phức tạp, việc nghị án đòi hỏi phải có thời gian dài thì Hội đồng xét xử có thể quyết định thời gian nghị án nhưng không quá 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ khi kết thúc tranh luận tại phiên tòa.
Hội đồng xét xử phải thông báo cho những người có mặt tại phiên tòa và người tham gia tố tụng vắng mặt tại phiên tòa về giờ, ngày và địa điểm tuyên án. Trường hợp Hội đồng xét xử đã thực hiện việc thông báo mà có người tham gia tố tụng vắng mặt vào ngày, giờ và địa điểm tuyên án thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành việc tuyên án theo quy định tại

Section 1198. Original section/article: 265. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trở lại việc hỏi và tranh luận Qua nghị án, nếu xét thấy có tình tiết của vụ án chưa được xem xét, việc hỏi chưa đầy đủ hoặc cần xem xét thêm chứng cứ thì Hội đồng xét xử quyết định trở lại việc hỏi và tranh luận.

Section 1199. Original section/article: 266. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bản án sơ thẩm 1. Tòa án ra bản án nhân danh nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam.
2. Bản án gồm có phần mở đầu, phần nội dung vụ án và nhận định và phần quyết định của Tòa án, cụ thể như sau:
a) Trong phần mở đầu phải ghi rõ tên Tòa án xét xử sơ thẩm; số và ngày thụ lý vụ án; số bản án và ngày tuyên án; họ, tên của các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử, Thư ký phiên tòa, Kiểm sát viên, người giám định, người phiên dịch; tên, địa chỉ của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện; người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự; đối tượng tranh chấp; số, ngày, tháng, năm của quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử; xét xử công khai hoặc xét xử kín; thời gian và địa điểm xét xử;
b) Trong phần nội dung vụ án và nhận định của Tòa án phải ghi yêu cầu khởi kiện của nguyên đơn, yêu cầu khởi kiện của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân; yêu cầu phản tố, đề nghị của bị đơn; yêu cầu độc lập, đề nghị của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Tòa án phải căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ đã được xem xét tại phiên tòa, kết quả tranh tụng tại phiên tòa để phân tích, đánh giá, nhận định đầy đủ, khách quan về các tình tiết của vụ án, những căn cứ pháp luật, nếu vụ án thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1200. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì còn phải căn cứ vào tập quán, tương tự pháp luật, những nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự, án lệ hoặc lẽ công bằng, để chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận yêu cầu, đề nghị của đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự và giải quyết các vấn đề khác có liên quan;
c) Trong phần quyết định phải ghi rõ các căn cứ pháp luật, quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử về từng vấn đề phải giải quyết trong vụ án, về áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời, án phí, chi phí tố tụng và quyền kháng cáo đối với bản án; trường hợp có quyết định phải thi hành ngay thì phải ghi rõ quyết định đó.
3. Khi xét xử lại vụ án mà bản án, quyết định đã bị hủy một phần hoặc toàn bộ theo quyết định giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm thì Tòa án phải giải quyết vấn đề tài sản, nghĩa vụ đã được thi hành (nếu có) theo bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật nhưng bị hủy và ghi rõ trong bản án.

Section 1201. Original section/article: 267. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tuyên án Hội đồng xét xử tuyên đọc bản án với sự có mặt của các đương sự, đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức và cá nhân khởi kiện. Trường hợp đương sự có mặt tại phiên tòa nhưng vắng mặt khi tuyên án hoặc vắng mặt trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1202. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tuyên đọc bản án.
Khi tuyên án, mọi người trong phòng xử án phải đứng dậy, trừ trường hợp đặc biệt được sự đồng ý của chủ tọa phiên tòa. Chủ tọa phiên tòa hoặc một thành viên khác của Hội đồng xét xử tuyên đọc bản án và có thể giải thích thêm về việc thi hành bản án và quyền kháng cáo.
Trường hợp Tòa án xét xử kín theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1203. Original section/article: 15. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Hội đồng xét xử chỉ tuyên công khai phần mở đầu và phần quyết định của bản án.
Trường hợp đương sự cần có người phiên dịch thì người phiên dịch phải dịch lại cho họ nghe toàn bộ bản án hoặc phần mở đầu và phần quyết định của bản án được tuyên công khai.

Section 1204. Original section/article: 268. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án 1. Sau khi tuyên án xong thì không được sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án, trừ trường hợp phát hiện lỗi rõ ràng về chính tả, về số liệu do nhầm lẫn hoặc tính toán sai.
2. Trường hợp cần sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì Thẩm phán phối hợp với các Hội thẩm nhân dân là thành viên Hội đồng xét xử đã tuyên bản án đó phải ra quyết định sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án và gửi ngay cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và cơ quan thi hành án dân sự nếu bản án đã được gửi cho cơ quan thi hành án dân sự.
Trường hợp Thẩm phán đã xét xử vụ án đó không còn đảm nhiệm chức vụ Thẩm phán tại Tòa án đã ra bản án đó thì Chánh án Tòa án thực hiện việc sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án.

Section 1205. Original section/article: 269. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấp trích lục bản án; giao, gửi bản án 1. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày kết thúc phiên tòa, các đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện được Tòa án cấp trích lục bản án.
2. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày tuyên án, Tòa án phải giao hoặc gửi bản án cho các đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
3. Bản án sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án giải quyết vụ án dân sự bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng do tổ chức xã hội tham gia bảo vệ người tiêu dùng khởi kiện phải được niêm yết công khai tại trụ sở Tòa án và công bố công khai trên một trong các báo hàng ngày của trung ương hoặc địa phương trong ba số liên tiếp.
Bản án sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án có liên quan đến trách nhiệm bồi thường của Nhà nước phải được Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm gửi cho cơ quan quản lý nhà nước có thẩm quyền về bồi thường nhà nước.
Bản án sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án có liên quan đến việc thay đổi hộ tịch của cá nhân phải được Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm thông báo bằng văn bản kèm theo trích lục bản án cho Ủy ban nhân dân nơi đã đăng ký hộ tịch của cá nhân đó theo quy định của Luật hộ tịch.
Thời hạn niêm yết, công bố, gửi bản án, thông báo quy định tại khoản này là 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày bản án có hiệu lực pháp luật.
4. Bản án sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án được công bố trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), trừ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có chứa thông tin quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1206. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Phần thứ ba THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ ÁN TẠI TÒA ÁN CẤP PHÚC THẨM 
Chương XV TÍNH CHẤT CỦA XÉT XỬ PHÚC THẨM VÀ KHÁNG CÁO, KHÁNG NGHỊ BẢN ÁN, 
QUYẾT ĐỊNH CỦA TÒA ÁN CẤP SƠ THẨM

Section 1207. Original section/article: 270. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tính chất của xét xử phúc thẩm Xét xử phúc thẩm là việc Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm trực tiếp xét xử lại vụ án mà bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị.

Section 1208. Original section/article: 271. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người có quyền kháng cáo Đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện có quyền kháng cáo bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để yêu cầu Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm giải quyết lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.

Section 1209. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn kháng cáo 1. Khi thực hiện quyền kháng cáo, người kháng cáo phải làm đơn kháng cáo.
Đơn kháng cáo phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm đơn kháng cáo;
b) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người kháng cáo;
c) Kháng cáo toàn bộ hoặc phần của bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật;
d) Lý do của việc kháng cáo và yêu cầu của người kháng cáo;
đ) Chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người kháng cáo.
2. Người kháng cáo là cá nhân có đầy đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự có thể tự mình làm đơn kháng cáo. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi họ, tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người kháng cáo. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người kháng cáo phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ.
3. Người kháng cáo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này nếu không tự mình kháng cáo thì có thể ủy quyền cho người khác đại diện cho mình kháng cáo. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi họ, tên, địa chỉ của người đại diện theo ủy quyền của người kháng cáo, của người kháng cáo ủy quyền kháng cáo; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người kháng cáo ủy quyền kháng cáo và văn bản ủy quyền. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện theo ủy quyền phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ.
4. Người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức có thể tự mình làm đơn kháng cáo. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức; họ, tên, chức vụ của người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện theo pháp luật phải ký tên và đóng dấu của cơ quan, tổ chức đó, trường hợp doanh nghiệp kháng cáo thì việc sử dụng con dấu theo quy định của Luật doanh nghiệp.
Trường hợp người đại diện theo pháp luật của cơ quan, tổ chức ủy quyền cho người khác kháng cáo thì tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi họ, tên, địa chỉ của người đại diện theo ủy quyền, của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức ủy quyền; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức ủy quyền; họ, tên, chức vụ của người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự là cơ quan, tổ chức đó và văn bản ủy quyền. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện theo ủy quyền phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ.
5. Người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự có thể tự mình làm đơn kháng cáo. Tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi họ, tên, địa chỉ của người đại diện theo pháp luật; họ, tên, địa chỉ của đương sự là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện theo pháp luật phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ.
Trường hợp người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự ủy quyền cho người khác đại diện cho mình kháng cáo thì tại mục tên, địa chỉ của người kháng cáo trong đơn phải ghi họ, tên, địa chỉ của người đại diện theo ủy quyền và văn bản ủy quyền; họ, tên, địa chỉ của người đại diện theo pháp luật của đương sự ủy quyền; họ, tên, địa chỉ của đương sự là người chưa thành niên, người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự. Ở phần cuối đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện theo ủy quyền phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ.
6. Việc ủy quyền quy định tại các khoản 3, 4 và 5 Điều này phải được làm thành văn bản có công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp, trừ trường hợp văn bản ủy quyền đó được lập tại Tòa án có sự chứng kiến của Thẩm phán hoặc người được Chánh án Tòa án phân công. Trong văn bản ủy quyền phải có nội dung đương sự ủy quyền cho người đại diện theo ủy quyền kháng cáo bản án, quyết định tạm đình chỉ, đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm.
7. Đơn kháng cáo phải được gửi cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm đã ra bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo. Trường hợp đơn kháng cáo được gửi cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm thì Tòa án đó phải chuyển cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để tiến hành các thủ tục cần thiết theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
8. Kèm theo đơn kháng cáo, người kháng cáo phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ bổ sung (nếu có) để chứng minh cho kháng cáo của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1210. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng cáo 1. Thời hạn kháng cáo đối với bản án của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày tuyên án; đối với đương sự, đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc cá nhân khởi kiện không có mặt tại phiên tòa
hoặc không có mặt khi tuyên án mà có lý do chính đáng thì thời hạn kháng cáo được tính từ ngày họ nhận được bản án hoặc bản án được niêm yết.
Đối với trường hợp đương sự, đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc cá nhân khởi kiện đã tham gia phiên tòa nhưng vắng mặt khi Tòa án tuyên án mà không có lý do chính đáng thì thời hạn kháng cáo được tính từ ngày tuyên án.
2. Thời hạn kháng cáo đối với quyết định tạm đình chỉ, đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm là 07 ngày, kể từ ngày đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện nhận được quyết định hoặc kể từ ngày quyết định được niêm yết theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp đơn kháng cáo được gửi qua dịch vụ bưu chính thì ngày kháng cáo được xác định căn cứ vào ngày tổ chức dịch vụ bưu chính nơi gửi đóng dấu ở phong bì. Trường hợp người kháng cáo đang bị tạm giam thì ngày kháng cáo là ngày đơn kháng cáo được giám thị trại giam xác nhận.

Section 1211. Original section/article: 274. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kiểm tra đơn kháng cáo 1. Sau khi nhận được đơn kháng cáo, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải kiểm tra tính hợp lệ của đơn kháng cáo theo quy định tại

Section 1212. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp đơn kháng cáo quá hạn thì Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm yêu cầu người kháng cáo trình bày rõ lý do và xuất trình tài liệu, chứng cứ (nếu có) để chứng minh lý do nộp đơn kháng cáo quá hạn là chính đáng.
3. Trường hợp đơn kháng cáo chưa đúng quy định tại

Section 1213. Original section/article: 272. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm yêu cầu người kháng cáo làm lại hoặc sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn kháng cáo.
4. Tòa án trả lại đơn kháng cáo trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người kháng cáo không có quyền kháng cáo;
b) Người kháng cáo không làm lại đơn kháng cáo hoặc không sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn kháng cáo theo yêu cầu của Tòa án quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này.
c) Trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1214. Original section/article: 275. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kháng cáo quá hạn và xem xét kháng cáo quá hạn 1. Kháng cáo quá thời hạn quy định tại

Section 1215. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này là kháng cáo quá hạn. Sau khi nhận được đơn kháng cáo quá hạn, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải gửi đơn kháng cáo, bản tường trình của người kháng cáo về lý do kháng cáo quá hạn và tài liệu, chứng cứ (nếu có) cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm.
2. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được đơn kháng cáo quá hạn và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm thành lập Hội đồng gồm ba Thẩm phán để xem xét kháng cáo quá hạn. Phiên họp xem xét kháng cáo quá hạn phải có sự tham gia của đại diện Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và người kháng cáo quá hạn. Trường hợp người kháng cáo, Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
3. Căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan đến việc kháng cáo quá hạn, ý kiến của người kháng cáo quá hạn, đại diện Viện kiểm sát tại phiên họp, Hội đồng xét kháng cáo quá hạn quyết định theo đa số về việc chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận việc kháng cáo quá hạn và phải ghi rõ lý do của việc chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận trong quyết định. Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải gửi quyết định cho người kháng cáo quá hạn, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp; nếu
Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm chấp nhận việc kháng cáo quá hạn thì Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải tiến hành các thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định.

Section 1216. Original section/article: 276. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm 1. Sau khi chấp nhận đơn kháng cáo hợp lệ, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải thông báo cho người kháng cáo biết để họ nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm theo quy định của pháp luật, nếu họ không thuộc trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm.
2. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được thông báo của Tòa án về việc nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm, người kháng cáo phải nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm và nộp cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm. Hết thời hạn này mà người kháng cáo không nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm thì được coi là từ bỏ việc kháng cáo, trừ trường hợp có lý do chính đáng.
Trường hợp sau khi hết thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được thông báo của Tòa án về việc nộp tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm, người kháng cáo mới nộp cho Tòa án biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm mà không nêu rõ lý do thì Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm yêu cầu người kháng cáo trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án phải có văn bản trình bày lý do chậm nộp biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm nộp cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để đưa vào hồ sơ vụ án. Trường hợp này được xử lý theo thủ tục xem xét kháng cáo quá hạn.

Section 1217. Original section/article: 277. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về việc kháng cáo 1. Sau khi chấp nhận đơn kháng cáo hợp lệ, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải thông báo ngay bằng văn bản cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và đương sự có liên quan đến kháng cáo biết về việc kháng cáo kèm theo bản sao đơn kháng cáo, tài liệu, chứng cứ bổ sung mà người kháng cáo gửi kèm đơn kháng cáo.
2. Đương sự có liên quan đến kháng cáo được thông báo về việc kháng cáo có quyền gửi văn bản nêu ý kiến của mình về nội dung kháng cáo cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm. Văn bản nêu ý kiến của họ được đưa vào hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1218. Original section/article: 278. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và cấp trên trực tiếp có quyền kháng nghị bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để yêu cầu Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm giải quyết lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.

Section 1219. Original section/article: 279. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát 1. Quyết định kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát phải bằng văn bản và có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định kháng nghị và số của quyết định kháng nghị;
b) Tên của Viện kiểm sát ra quyết định kháng nghị;
c) Kháng nghị toàn bộ hoặc phần của bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật;
d) Lý do của việc kháng nghị và yêu cầu của Viện kiểm sát;
đ) Họ, tên của người ký quyết định kháng nghị và đóng dấu của Viện kiểm sát ra quyết định kháng nghị.
2. Quyết định kháng nghị phải được gửi ngay cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm đã ra bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng nghị để Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm tiến hành các thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định và gửi hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm theo quy định tại

Section 1220. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Kèm theo quyết định kháng nghị là tài liệu, chứng cứ bổ sung (nếu có) để chứng minh cho kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1221. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng nghị 1. Thời hạn kháng nghị đối với bản án của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp là 15 ngày, của Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp là 01 tháng, kể từ ngày tuyên án. Trường hợp Kiểm sát viên không tham gia phiên tòa thì thời hạn kháng nghị tính từ ngày Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp nhận được bản án.
2. Thời hạn kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp đối với quyết định tạm đình chỉ, quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm là 07 ngày, của Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp là 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp nhận được quyết định.
3. Khi Tòa án nhận được quyết định kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát mà quyết định kháng nghị đó đã quá thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này thì Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm yêu cầu Viện kiểm sát giải thích bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do.

Section 1222. Original section/article: 281. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về việc kháng nghị 1. Viện kiểm sát ra quyết định kháng nghị phải gửi ngay quyết định kháng nghị cho đương sự có liên quan đến kháng nghị.
2. Người được thông báo về việc kháng nghị có quyền gửi văn bản nêu ý kiến của mình về nội dung kháng nghị cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm. Văn bản nêu ý kiến của họ được đưa vào hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1223. Original section/article: 282. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hậu quả của việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm hoặc những phần bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị thì chưa được đưa ra thi hành, trừ trường hợp pháp luật quy định cho thi hành ngay.
2. Bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm hoặc những phần bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm không bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm thì có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày hết thời hạn kháng cáo, kháng nghị.

Section 1224. Original section/article: 283. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi hồ sơ vụ án và kháng cáo, kháng nghị Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm phải gửi hồ sơ vụ án, đơn kháng cáo, quyết định kháng nghị và tài liệu, chứng cứ bổ sung kèm theo cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày:
1. Hết thời hạn kháng nghị.
2. Hết thời hạn kháng cáo, người kháng cáo đã nộp cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm biên lai thu tiền tạm ứng án phí phúc thẩm.

Section 1225. Original section/article: 284. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị 
1. Trường hợp chưa hết thời hạn kháng cáo theo quy định tại

Section 1226. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì người đã kháng cáo có quyền thay đổi, bổ sung kháng cáo mà không bị giới hạn bởi phạm vi kháng cáo ban đầu.
Trường hợp chưa hết thời hạn kháng nghị theo quy định tại

Section 1227. Original section/article: 280. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Viện kiểm sát đã kháng nghị có quyền thay đổi, bổ sung kháng nghị mà không bị giới hạn bởi phạm vi kháng nghị ban đầu.
2. Trước khi bắt đầu phiên tòa hoặc tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, người kháng cáo có quyền thay đổi, bổ sung kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát đã kháng nghị có quyền thay đổi, bổ sung kháng nghị, nhưng không được vượt quá phạm vi kháng cáo, kháng nghị ban đầu, nếu thời hạn kháng cáo, kháng nghị đã hết.
3. Trước khi bắt đầu phiên tòa hoặc tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, người kháng cáo có quyền rút kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát đã kháng nghị hoặc Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp có quyền rút kháng nghị.
Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm đối với những phần của vụ án mà người kháng cáo đã rút kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát đã rút kháng nghị.
Việc đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm trước khi mở phiên tòa do Thẩm phán chủ tọa phiên tòa quyết định, tại phiên tòa do Hội đồng xét xử quyết định.
4. Việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị trước khi mở phiên tòa phải được lập thành văn bản và gửi cho Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm. Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải thông báo cho các đương sự về việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị, thông báo cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp về việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo.
Việc thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị tại phiên tòa phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên tòa.
Chương XVI CHUẨN BỊ XÉT XỬ PHÚC THẨM

Section 1228. Original section/article: 285. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thụ lý vụ án để xét xử phúc thẩm 1. Ngay sau khi nhận được hồ sơ vụ án, kháng cáo, kháng nghị và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải vào sổ thụ lý.
Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án, Tòa án phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho các đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp về việc Tòa án đã thụ lý vụ án và thông báo trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có).
2. Chánh án Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm thành lập Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm và phân công một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa phiên tòa.

Section 1229. Original section/article: 286. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm 1. Trong thời hạn 02 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án, tùy từng trường hợp, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án;
b) Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án;
c) Đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm.
Đối với vụ án có tính chất phức tạp hoặc do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan thì Chánh án Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm có thể quyết định kéo dài thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử, nhưng không được quá 01 tháng.
2. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử, Tòa án phải mở phiên tòa phúc thẩm; trường hợp có lý do chính đáng thì thời hạn này là 02 tháng.
3. Trường hợp có quyết định tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm được tính lại kể từ ngày quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật.
4. Thời hạn quy định tại Điều này không áp dụng đối với vụ án xét xử phúc thẩm theo thủ tục rút gọn, vụ án có yếu tố nước ngoài.

Section 1230. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ trong giai đoạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm 1. Đương sự được quyền bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ sau đây trong giai đoạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm:
a) Tài liệu, chứng cứ mà Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm đã yêu cầu giao nộp nhưng đương sự không cung cấp, giao nộp được vì có lý do chính đáng;
b) Tài liệu, chứng cứ mà Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm không yêu cầu đương sự giao nộp hoặc đương sự không thể biết được trong quá trình giải quyết vụ việc theo thủ tục sơ thẩm.
2. Thủ tục giao nộp tài liệu, chứng cứ được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1231. Original section/article: 288. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án 1. Trường hợp Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án thì hậu quả của việc tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm và việc tiếp tục xét xử phúc thẩm được thực hiện theo quy định tại các

Section 1232. Original section/article: 214. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 215 và 216 của Bộ luật này.
2. Quyết định tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án có hiệu lực thi hành ngay và được gửi ngay cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1233. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án 1. Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án hoặc một phần vụ án trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Các trường hợp quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản 1

Section 1234. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Người kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị;
c) Người kháng cáo rút một phần kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút một phần kháng nghị;
d) Các trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp người kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị trước khi Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm thì Thẩm phán được phân công làm chủ tọa phiên tòa ra quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm; trường hợp người kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị sau khi Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm thì Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm.
Trong các trường hợp này, bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật từ ngày Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm.
3. Trường hợp người kháng cáo rút một phần kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút một phần kháng nghị thì Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm nhận định về việc người kháng cáo rút một phần kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút một phần kháng nghị và quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phần kháng cáo, kháng nghị đó trong bản án phúc thẩm.
4. Quyết định đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án có hiệu lực thi hành ngay và phải được gửi ngay cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1235. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm 1. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Các nội dung quy định tại các điểm a, b, c, d, g, h và i khoản 1

Section 1236. Original section/article: 220. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Họ, tên Thẩm phán, Thư ký Tòa án; họ, tên Thẩm phán dự khuyết (nếu có);
c) Họ, tên, tư cách tham gia tố tụng của người kháng cáo;
d) Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị (nếu có);
đ) Họ, tên Kiểm sát viên tham gia phiên tòa; họ, tên Kiểm sát viên dự khuyết (nếu có).
2. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm phải được gửi cho đương sự, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định.

Section 1237. Original section/article: 291. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm có quyền quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại Chương VIII của Bộ luật này.

Section 1238. Original section/article: 292. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Viện kiểm sát nghiên cứu 1. Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cùng với quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp nghiên cứu.
2. Thời hạn nghiên cứu hồ sơ của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ án; hết thời hạn đó, Viện kiểm sát phải trả hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án.
Chương XVII THỦ TỤC XÉT XỬ PHÚC THẨM 
Mục 1. THỦ TỤC BẮT ĐẦU PHIÊN TÒA PHÚC THẨM

Section 1239. Original section/article: 293. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi xét xử phúc thẩm Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm chỉ xem xét lại phần của bản án sơ thẩm, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm có kháng cáo, kháng nghị hoặc có liên quan đến việc xem xét nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị.

Section 1240. Original section/article: 294. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những người tham gia phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Người kháng cáo, đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan đến việc giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị và người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự phải được triệu tập tham gia phiên tòa. Tòa án có thể triệu tập những người tham gia tố tụng khác tham gia phiên tòa nếu xét thấy cần thiết cho việc giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
2. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp tham gia phiên tòa phúc thẩm.

Section 1241. Original section/article: 295. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm đình chỉ, đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm tại phiên tòa Tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, việc tạm đình chỉ, đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1242. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hoãn phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Kiểm sát viên được phân công tham gia phiên tòa phúc thẩm vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành xét xử, không hoãn phiên tòa, trừ trường hợp Viện kiểm sát có kháng nghị phúc thẩm.
2. Người kháng cáo, người không kháng cáo nhưng có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ nhất mà vắng mặt thì phải hoãn phiên tòa. Trường hợp họ có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt thì Tòa án tiến hành phiên tòa phúc thẩm xét xử vắng mặt họ.
3. Người kháng cáo được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vắng mặt thì bị coi như từ bỏ việc kháng cáo và Tòa án đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm đối với yêu cầu kháng cáo của người đó, trừ trường hợp người đó đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt thì Tòa án tiến hành phiên tòa phúc thẩm xét xử vắng mặt họ.
Trường hợp người kháng cáo vắng mặt vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan thì phải hoãn phiên tòa.
Trường hợp có nhiều người kháng cáo, trong đó có người kháng cáo được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vắng mặt nhưng không có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt thì coi như người đó từ bỏ việc kháng cáo và Tòa án đưa vụ án ra xét xử. Trong phần quyết định của bản án, Tòa án đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm đối với phần kháng cáo của người kháng cáo vắng mặt đó.
Người không kháng cáo nhưng có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị và những người tham gia tố tụng khác đã được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt thì Tòa án tiến hành xét xử vụ án.
4. Thời hạn hoãn phiên tòa và quyết định hoãn phiên tòa phúc thẩm được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1243. Original section/article: 297. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị khai mạc phiên tòa phúc thẩm và thủ tục bắt đầu phiên tòa phúc thẩm Chuẩn bị khai mạc phiên tòa phúc thẩm và thủ tục bắt đầu phiên tòa phúc thẩm được thực hiện theo quy định tại các

Section 1244. Original section/article: 237. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 239, 240, 241 và 242 của Bộ luật này.

Section 1245. Original section/article: 298. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hỏi về việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị và xử lý việc thay đổi kháng cáo, kháng nghị tại phiên tòa 1. Sau khi kết thúc thủ tục bắt đầu phiên tòa phúc thẩm thì một thành viên của Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm công bố nội dung vụ án, quyết định của bản án sơ thẩm và nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
2. Chủ tọa phiên tòa hỏi về các vấn đề sau đây:
a) Hỏi nguyên đơn có rút đơn khởi kiện hay không;
b) Hỏi người kháng cáo, Kiểm sát viên có thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị hay không;
c) Hỏi các đương sự có thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án hay không.
3. Trường hợp người kháng cáo rút một phần kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút một phần kháng nghị thì Tòa án chấp nhận việc rút kháng cáo, kháng nghị. Trường hợp người kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát bổ sung nội dung mới vượt quá phạm vi kháng cáo, kháng nghị ban đầu thì Tòa án không xem xét nội dung đó.

Section 1246. Original section/article: 299. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguyên đơn rút đơn khởi kiện trước khi mở phiên tòa hoặc tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Trước khi mở phiên tòa hoặc tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, nếu nguyên đơn rút đơn khởi kiện thì Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm phải hỏi bị đơn có đồng ý hay không và tuỳ từng trường hợp mà giải quyết như sau:
a) Bị đơn không đồng ý thì không chấp nhận việc rút đơn khởi kiện của nguyên đơn;
b) Bị đơn đồng ý thì chấp nhận việc rút đơn khởi kiện của nguyên đơn. Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm ra quyết định hủy bản án sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án. Trong trường hợp này, các đương sự vẫn phải chịu án phí sơ thẩm theo quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và phải chịu một nửa án phí phúc thẩm theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trường hợp Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án theo quy định tại điểm b khoản 1 Điều này thì nguyên đơn có quyền khởi kiện lại vụ án theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định.

Section 1247. Original section/article: 300. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, nếu các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc giải quyết vụ án và thỏa thuận của họ là tự nguyện, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật và không trái đạo đức xã hội thì Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm ra bản án phúc thẩm sửa bản án sơ thẩm, công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự.
2. Các đương sự tự thỏa thuận với nhau về việc chịu án phí sơ thẩm, nếu không thỏa thuận được thì Tòa án quyết định theo quy định của pháp luật.
Mục 2. TRANH TỤNG TẠI PHIÊN TÒA PHÚC THẨM

Section 1248. Original section/article: 301. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nội dung và phương thức tranh tụng tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm Nội dung và phương thức tranh tụng tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1249. Original section/article: 302. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình bày của đương sự, Kiểm sát viên tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm Trường hợp có đương sự vẫn giữ kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát vẫn giữ kháng nghị thì việc trình bày tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm được tiến hành như sau:
1. Trình bày kháng cáo, kháng nghị:
a) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người kháng cáo trình bày nội dung kháng cáo, căn cứ của việc kháng cáo. Người kháng cáo có quyền bổ sung ý kiến.
Trường hợp tất cả đương sự đều kháng cáo thì việc trình bày được thực hiện theo thứ tự người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của nguyên đơn kháng cáo và nguyên đơn; người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của bị đơn kháng cáo và bị đơn; người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan kháng cáo và người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
b) Trường hợp chỉ có Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị thì Kiểm sát viên trình bày về nội dung kháng nghị, căn cứ của việc kháng nghị. Trường hợp vừa có kháng cáo, vừa có kháng nghị thì các đương sự trình bày về nội dung kháng cáo và các căn cứ của việc kháng cáo trước, sau đó Kiểm sát viên trình bày về nội dung kháng nghị và các căn cứ của việc kháng nghị;
c) Trường hợp đương sự không có người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho mình thì họ tự trình bày ý kiến về nội dung kháng cáo và đề nghị của mình.
2. Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của các đương sự khác có liên quan đến kháng cáo, kháng nghị trình bày ý kiến về nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị. Đương sự có quyền bổ sung ý kiến.
3. Tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, đương sự, Kiểm sát viên có quyền xuất trình bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ.

Section 1250. Original section/article: 303. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục hỏi và công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ, xem xét vật chứng tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Thủ tục hỏi những người tham gia tố tụng và công bố tài liệu, chứng cứ, xem xét vật chứng quy định tại

Section 1251. Original section/article: 287. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm được thực hiện như tại phiên tòa sơ thẩm.
2. Việc hỏi được thực hiện đối với những vấn đề thuộc phạm vi xét xử phúc thẩm quy định tại

Section 1252. Original section/article: 304. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm ngừng phiên tòa phúc thẩm Việc tạm ngừng phiên tòa phúc thẩm được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1253. Original section/article: 305. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tranh luận tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm 1. Tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm, đương sự, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự chỉ được tranh luận về những vấn đề thuộc phạm vi xét xử phúc thẩm và đã được hỏi tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm.
2. Trình tự tranh luận đối với kháng cáo được thực hiện như sau:
a) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người kháng cáo trình bày. Người kháng cáo có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
b) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự tranh luận, đối đáp. Đương sự có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
c) Khi xét thấy cần thiết, Hội đồng xét xử có thể yêu cầu các đương sự tranh luận bổ sung về những vấn đề cụ thể để làm căn cứ giải quyết vụ án.
3. Trình tự tranh luận đối với kháng nghị được thực hiện như sau:
a) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự phát biểu về tính hợp pháp, tính có căn cứ của kháng nghị. Đương sự có quyền bổ sung ý kiến;
b) Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến về những vấn đề mà người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, đương sự đã nêu.
4. Trường hợp đương sự không có người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình thì họ tự mình tranh luận.
5. Trường hợp vắng mặt một trong các đương sự và người tham gia tố tụng khác thì chủ tọa phiên tòa phải công bố lời khai của họ để trên cơ sở đó các đương sự có mặt tại phiên tòa tranh luận và đối đáp.

Section 1254. Original section/article: 306. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phát biểu của Kiểm sát viên tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm Sau khi kết thúc việc tranh luận và đối đáp, Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc tuân theo pháp luật trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án dân sự ở giai đoạn phúc thẩm.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, Kiểm sát viên phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ vụ án.

Section 1255. Original section/article: 307. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nghị án và tuyên án Việc nghị án, trở lại việc hỏi và tranh luận, thời gian nghị án, tuyên án, sửa chữa, bổ sung bản án phúc thẩm được thực hiện như thủ tục xét xử sơ thẩm.

Section 1256. Original section/article: 308. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm có quyền sau đây:
1. Giữ nguyên bản án sơ thẩm;
2. Sửa bản án sơ thẩm;
3. Hủy bản án sơ thẩm, hủy một phần bản án sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm giải quyết lại vụ án theo thủ tục sơ thẩm;
4. Hủy bản án sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án;
5. Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm;
6. Tạm đình chỉ việc giải quyết vụ án khi có văn bản của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao kiến nghị cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền xem xét sửa đổi, bổ sung hoặc bãi bỏ văn bản quy phạm pháp luật có dấu hiệu trái với Hiến pháp, luật, nghị quyết của Quốc hội, pháp lệnh, nghị quyết của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật của cơ quan nhà nước cấp trên cho đến khi cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền có văn bản trả lời Tòa án kết quả xử lý.

Section 1257. Original section/article: 309. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sửa bản án sơ thẩm Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án sơ thẩm nếu Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm quyết định không đúng pháp luật trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Việc thu thập chứng cứ và chứng minh đã được thực hiện đầy đủ và theo đúng quy định tại Chương VII của Bộ luật này.
2. Việc thu thập chứng cứ và chứng minh chưa được thực hiện đầy đủ ở cấp sơ thẩm nhưng tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm đã được bổ sung đầy đủ.

Section 1258. Original section/article: 310. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy bản án sơ thẩm, hủy một phần bản án sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm giải quyết lại vụ án theo thủ tục sơ thẩm Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm hủy bản án sơ thẩm, hủy một phần bản án sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm giải quyết lại vụ án theo thủ tục sơ thẩm khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Việc thu thập chứng cứ và chứng minh không theo đúng quy định tại Chương VII của Bộ luật này hoặc chưa được thực hiện đầy đủ mà tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm không thể thực hiện bổ sung được.
2. Thành phần của Hội đồng xét xử sơ thẩm không đúng quy định của Bộ luật này hoặc có vi phạm nghiêm trọng khác về thủ tục tố tụng ảnh hưởng đến quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự.

Section 1259. Original section/article: 311. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy bản án sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm hủy bản án sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án nếu trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án tại Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm, vụ án thuộc một trong các trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1260. Original section/article: 312. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm và giữ nguyên bản án sơ thẩm khi thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1261. Original section/article: 289. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Người kháng cáo đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà không có mặt theo quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1262. Original section/article: 296. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp vụ án có người khác kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị.

Section 1263. Original section/article: 313. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bản án phúc thẩm 1. Hội đồng xét xử phúc thẩm ra bản án phúc thẩm nhân danh nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam.
2. Bản án phúc thẩm gồm có:
a) Phần mở đầu;
b) Phần nội dung vụ án, kháng cáo, kháng nghị và nhận định;
c) Phần quyết định.
3. Trong phần mở đầu phải ghi rõ tên của Tòa án xét xử phúc thẩm; số và ngày thụ lý vụ án; số bản án và ngày tuyên án; họ, tên của các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử, Thư ký phiên tòa, Kiểm sát viên, người giám định, người phiên dịch; tên, địa chỉ của nguyên đơn, bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện; người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ; người kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị; xét xử công khai hoặc xét xử kín; thời gian và địa điểm xét xử.
4. Trong phần nội dung vụ án, kháng cáo, kháng nghị và nhận định phải tóm tắt nội dung vụ án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm; nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
Tòa án phải căn cứ vào tài liệu, chứng cứ đã được xem xét tại phiên tòa, kết quả tranh tụng tại phiên tòa để phân tích, đánh giá, nhận định về kháng cáo, kháng nghị, các tình tiết của vụ án, việc giải quyết, xét xử của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm, những căn cứ pháp luật mà Tòa án áp dụng, nếu vụ án thuộc trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1264. Original section/article: 4. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì còn phải căn cứ vào tập quán, tương tự pháp luật, những nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật dân sự, án lệ hoặc lẽ công bằng, để chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận kháng cáo, kháng nghị và giải quyết các vấn đề khác có liên quan.
Trong phần quyết định phải ghi rõ các căn cứ pháp luật, quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử về từng vấn đề phải giải quyết trong vụ án, về áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời, án phí sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm, chi phí tố tụng (nếu có).
5. Khi xét xử lại vụ án mà bản án, quyết định đã bị hủy một phần hoặc toàn bộ theo quyết định giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm thì Tòa án phải giải quyết vấn đề tài sản, nghĩa vụ đã được thi hành (nếu có) theo bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật nhưng bị hủy và ghi rõ trong bản án.
6. Bản án phúc thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày tuyên án.

Section 1265. Original section/article: 314. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục phúc thẩm đối với quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Khi phúc thẩm đối với quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, Hội đồng phúc thẩm không phải mở phiên tòa, không phải triệu tập các đương sự, trừ trường hợp cần phải nghe ý kiến của họ trước khi ra quyết định.
2. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án có quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, Tòa án phải mở phiên họp phúc thẩm để xem xét quyết định đó; trường hợp có lý do chính đáng thì thời hạn này là 02 tháng.
Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp tham gia phiên họp phúc thẩm. Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp, trừ trường hợp Viện kiểm sát có kháng nghị.
3. Một thành viên của Hội đồng phúc thẩm trình bày tóm tắt nội dung quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, nội dung của kháng cáo, kháng nghị và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo (nếu có).
4. Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị trước khi Hội đồng phúc thẩm ra quyết định.
5. Khi xem xét quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, Hội đồng phúc thẩm có quyền:
a) Giữ nguyên quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
b) Sửa quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
c) Hủy quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để tiếp tục giải quyết vụ án.
6. Quyết định phúc thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày ra quyết định.

Section 1266. Original section/article: 315. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm 1. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm phải gửi bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm cho Tòa án đã xét xử sơ thẩm, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền, người kháng cáo, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ.
Trường hợp Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử phúc thẩm thì thời hạn này có thể dài hơn, nhưng không quá 25 ngày.
2. Bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm có liên quan đến bảo vệ quyền lợi người tiêu dùng do tổ chức xã hội tham gia bảo vệ người tiêu dùng khởi kiện phải được niêm yết công khai tại trụ sở Tòa án và
công bố công khai trên một trong các báo hàng ngày của trung ương hoặc địa phương trong ba số liên tiếp.
Bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm có liên quan đến trách nhiệm bồi thường của Nhà nước phải được Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm gửi cho cơ quan quản lý nhà nước có thẩm quyền về bồi thường nhà nước.
Bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm có liên quan đến việc thay đổi hộ tịch của cá nhân thì trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định đó có hiệu lực pháp luật phải được Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm thông báo bằng văn bản kèm theo trích lục bản án, quyết định cho Ủy ban nhân dân nơi đã đăng ký hộ tịch của cá nhân đó theo quy định của Luật hộ tịch.
3. Bản án phúc thẩm được Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm công bố trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), trừ trường hợp có chứa thông tin quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1267. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Phần thứ tư GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ ÁN DÂN SỰ THEO THỦ TỤC RÚT GỌN 
Chương XVIII GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ ÁN DÂN SỰ THEO THỦ TỤC RÚT GỌN TẠI TÒA ÁN CẤP SƠ 
THẨM

Section 1268. Original section/article: 316. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi áp dụng thủ tục rút gọn 1. Thủ tục rút gọn là thủ tục tố tụng được áp dụng để giải quyết vụ án dân sự có đủ điều kiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này với trình tự đơn giản so với thủ tục giải quyết các vụ án dân sự thông thường nhằm giải quyết vụ án nhanh chóng nhưng vẫn bảo đảm đúng pháp luật.
2. Những quy định của Phần này được áp dụng để giải quyết vụ án theo thủ tục rút gọn; trường hợp không có quy định thì áp dụng những quy định khác của Bộ luật này để giải quyết vụ án.
3. Trường hợp luật khác có quy định tranh chấp dân sự được giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn thì việc giải quyết tranh chấp đó được thực hiện theo thủ tục quy định tại Phần này.

Section 1269. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện áp dụng thủ tục rút gọn 1. Tòa án giải quyết vụ án theo thủ tục rút gọn khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Vụ án có tình tiết đơn giản, quan hệ pháp luật rõ ràng, đương sự đã thừa nhận nghĩa vụ; tài liệu, chứng cứ đầy đủ, bảo đảm đủ căn cứ để giải quyết vụ án và Tòa án không phải thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ;
b) Các đương sự đều có địa chỉ nơi cư trú, trụ sở rõ ràng;
c) Không có đương sự cư trú ở nước ngoài, tài sản tranh chấp ở nước ngoài, trừ trường hợp đương sự ở nước ngoài và đương sự ở Việt Nam có thỏa thuận đề nghị Tòa án giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn hoặc các đương sự đã xuất trình được chứng cứ về quyền sở hữu hợp pháp tài sản và có thỏa thuận thống nhất về việc xử lý tài sản.
2. Đối với vụ án lao động đã được thụ lý, giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn mà người sử dụng lao động có quốc tịch nước ngoài hoặc người đại diện theo pháp luật của họ đã rời khỏi địa chỉ nơi cư trú, nơi có trụ sở mà không thông báo cho đương sự khác, Tòa án thì bị coi là trường hợp cố tình giấu địa chỉ. Tòa án vẫn giải quyết vụ án đó theo thủ tục rút gọn quy định tại Phần này.
3. Trong giai đoạn chuẩn bị xét xử vụ án theo thủ tục rút gọn, nếu xuất hiện tình tiết mới sau đây làm cho vụ án không còn đủ điều kiện để giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn thì Tòa án ra quyết định chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường:
a) Phát sinh tình tiết mới mà các đương sự không thống nhất do đó cần phải xác minh, thu thập thêm tài liệu, chứng cứ hoặc cần phải tiến hành giám định;
b) Cần phải định giá, thẩm định giá tài sản tranh chấp mà các đương sự không thống nhất về giá;
c) Cần phải áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời;
d) Phát sinh người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
đ) Phát sinh yêu cầu phản tố hoặc yêu cầu độc lập;
e) Phát sinh đương sự cư trú ở nước ngoài, tài sản tranh chấp ở nước ngoài, yêu cầu xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ ở nước ngoài mà cần phải thực hiện ủy thác tư pháp, trừ trường hợp quy định tại điểm c khoản 1 Điều này.
4. Trường hợp chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử vụ án được tính lại kể từ ngày ra quyết định chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường.

Section 1270. Original section/article: 318. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Trong thời hạn không quá 01 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án theo quy định tại khoản 3 và khoản 4

Section 1271. Original section/article: 195. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án phải ra quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn và mở phiên tòa xét xử trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định.
2. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định;
b) Tên Tòa án ra quyết định;
c) Vụ án được đưa ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn;
d) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của nguyên đơn, bị đơn hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khởi kiện quy định tại

Section 1272. Original section/article: 187. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
đ) Họ, tên Thẩm phán, Thư ký Tòa án; họ, tên Thẩm phán dự khuyết (nếu có);
e) Họ, tên Kiểm sát viên; họ, tên Kiểm sát viên dự khuyết (nếu có);
g) Ngày, giờ, tháng, năm, địa điểm mở phiên tòa;
h) Xét xử công khai hoặc xét xử kín;
i) Họ, tên những người được triệu tập tham gia phiên tòa.
3. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn phải được gửi ngay cho đương sự, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
Trường hợp Viện kiểm sát tham gia phiên tòa theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1273. Original section/article: 21. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án phải gửi hồ sơ vụ án cùng quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp;
trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ, Viện kiểm sát phải nghiên cứu và trả lại hồ sơ cho Tòa án.

Section 1274. Original section/article: 319. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Khiếu nại, kiến nghị và giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị về quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn, đương sự có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp có quyền kiến nghị với Chánh án Tòa án đã ra quyết định.
2. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được khiếu nại, kiến nghị về quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn, Chánh án Tòa án phải ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn;
b) Hủy quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn và chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường.
3. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị của Chánh án Tòa án là quyết định cuối cùng và phải được gửi ngay cho đương sự, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1275. Original section/article: 320. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phiên tòa xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Các đương sự, Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phải có mặt tại phiên tòa xét xử theo thủ tục rút gọn. Trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành xét xử. Đương sự có quyền đề nghị Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt.
Trường hợp bị đơn, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đã được triệu tập hợp lệ mà vắng mặt không có lý do chính đáng thì Thẩm phán vẫn tiến hành phiên tòa.
2. Thẩm phán tiến hành thủ tục khai mạc phiên tòa theo quy định tại

Section 1276. Original section/article: 239. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Sau khi khai mạc phiên tòa, Thẩm phán tiến hành hòa giải, trừ trường hợp không được hòa giải theo quy định tại

Section 1277. Original section/article: 206. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
hoặc không tiến hành hòa giải được theo quy định tại

Section 1278. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp các đương sự thỏa thuận được với nhau về vấn đề phải giải quyết trong vụ án thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định công nhận sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự theo quy định tại

Section 1279. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp các đương sự không thỏa thuận được với nhau về vấn đề phải giải quyết trong vụ án thì Thẩm phán tiến hành xét xử.
Việc trình bày, tranh luận, đối đáp, đề xuất quan điểm về việc giải quyết vụ án được thực hiện theo quy định tại Mục 3 Chương XIV của Bộ luật này.
4. Trường hợp tại phiên tòa mà phát sinh tình tiết mới quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1280. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này làm cho vụ án không còn đủ điều kiện để giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn thì Thẩm phán xem xét, ra quyết định chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường. Trong trường hợp này, thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử vụ án được tính theo quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1281. Original section/article: 321. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của bản án, quyết định theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm của Tòa án theo thủ tục rút gọn có thể bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm để yêu cầu Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm giải quyết lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm rút gọn.
2. Bản án, quyết định theo thủ tục rút gọn có thể bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Chương XIX GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ ÁN DÂN SỰ THEO THỦ TỤC RÚT GỌN TẠI TÒA ÁN CẤP PHÚC 
THẨM

Section 1282. Original section/article: 322. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng cáo, kháng nghị đối với bản án, quyết định theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Thời hạn kháng cáo đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm theo thủ tục rút gọn là 07 ngày, kể từ ngày tuyên án. Đối với đương sự không có mặt tại phiên tòa thì thời hạn kháng cáo tính từ ngày bản án, quyết định được giao cho họ hoặc bản án, quyết định được niêm yết.
2. Thời hạn kháng nghị đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm theo thủ tục rút gọn của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp là 07 ngày, của Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp là 10 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được bản án, quyết định.

Section 1283. Original section/article: 323. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm theo thủ tục rút gọn 1. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý vụ án, tùy từng trường hợp, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vụ án theo thủ tục phúc thẩm ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án;
b) Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án;
c) Đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm.
2. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm phải có nội dung quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1284. Original section/article: 290. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm phải được gửi ngay cho những người có liên quan đến kháng cáo, kháng nghị và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp kèm theo hồ sơ vụ án để nghiên cứu.
Thời hạn nghiên cứu hồ sơ của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp là 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ án; hết thời hạn đó, Viện kiểm sát phải trả hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án.
3. Trường hợp có quyết định tạm đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử phúc thẩm được tính lại kể từ ngày Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm tiếp tục xét xử phúc thẩm vụ án khi lý do tạm đình chỉ không còn.
4. Trường hợp xuất hiện tình tiết mới quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1285. Original section/article: 317. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án ra quyết định chuyển vụ án sang giải quyết theo thủ tục thông thường. Trong trường hợp này, thời hạn chuẩn bị xét xử vụ án được tính theo quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1286. Original section/article: 324. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục phúc thẩm rút gọn đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày có quyết định đưa vụ án ra xét xử phúc thẩm, Thẩm phán phải mở phiên tòa phúc thẩm.
2. Các đương sự, Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phải có mặt tại phiên tòa phúc thẩm. Trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Hội đồng xét xử vẫn tiến hành xét xử, trừ trường hợp Viện kiểm sát có kháng nghị phúc thẩm. Đương sự có quyền đề nghị Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt.
Trường hợp đương sự không kháng cáo đã được triệu tập hợp lệ mà vắng mặt không có lý do chính đáng thì Thẩm phán vẫn tiến hành phiên tòa.
3. Thẩm phán trình bày tóm tắt nội dung bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, nội dung của kháng cáo, kháng nghị và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo (nếu có).
4. Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự trình bày, đương sự bổ sung ý kiến về nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị, tranh luận, đối đáp, đề xuất quan điểm của mình về việc giải quyết vụ án.
5. Sau khi kết thúc việc tranh luận và đối đáp, Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc tuân theo pháp luật trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án dân sự ở giai đoạn phúc thẩm.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, Kiểm sát viên phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ vụ án.
6. Khi xem xét bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, Thẩm phán có quyền sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
b) Sửa bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
c) Hủy bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để giải quyết lại vụ án theo thủ tục rút gọn hoặc theo thủ tục thông thường nếu không còn đủ các điều kiện để giải quyết theo thủ tục rút gọn;
d) Hủy bản án sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án;
đ) Đình chỉ xét xử phúc thẩm và giữ nguyên bản án sơ thẩm.
7. Bản án, quyết định phúc thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày ra bản án, quyết định.
Phần thứ năm THỦ TỤC XÉT LẠI BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH ĐÃ CÓ HIỆU LỰC PHÁP LUẬT 
Chương XX THỦ TỤC GIÁM ĐỐC THẨM

Section 1287. Original section/article: 325. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tính chất của giám đốc thẩm Giám đốc thẩm là xét lại bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật nhưng bị kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm khi có căn cứ quy định tại

Section 1288. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ, điều kiện để kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm khi có một trong những căn cứ sau đây:
a) Kết luận trong bản án, quyết định không phù hợp với những tình tiết khách quan của vụ án gây thiệt hại đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự;
b) Có vi phạm nghiêm trọng thủ tục tố tụng làm cho đương sự không thực hiện được quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng của mình, dẫn đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của họ không được bảo vệ theo đúng quy định của pháp luật;
c) Có sai lầm trong việc áp dụng pháp luật dẫn đến việc ra bản án, quyết định không đúng, gây thiệt hại đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, xâm phạm đến lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người thứ ba.
2. Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1289. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này kháng nghị bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật khi có một trong các căn cứ quy định tại khoản 1
Điều này và có đơn đề nghị theo quy định tại

Section 1290. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc có thông báo, kiến nghị theo quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1291. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này; trường hợp xâm phạm đến lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của người thứ ba thì không cần phải có đơn đề nghị.

Section 1292. Original section/article: 327. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phát hiện bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật cần xem xét lại theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Trong thời hạn 01 năm, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật, nếu phát hiện có vi phạm pháp luật trong bản án, quyết định đó thì đương sự có quyền đề nghị bằng văn bản với người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1293. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này để xem xét kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm.
2. Trường hợp Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác phát hiện có vi phạm pháp luật trong bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật thì phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1294. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh kiến nghị Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao hoặc Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao kiến nghị Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật nếu phát hiện có căn cứ quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1295. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn đề nghị xem xét bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Đơn đề nghị xem xét bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm đơn đề nghị;
b) Tên, địa chỉ của người đề nghị;
c) Tên bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật được đề nghị xem xét theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm;
d) Lý do đề nghị, yêu cầu của người đề nghị;
đ) Người đề nghị là cá nhân phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ; người đề nghị là cơ quan, tổ chức thì người đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức đó phải ký tên và đóng dấu vào phần cuối đơn; trường hợp tổ chức đề nghị là doanh nghiệp thì việc sử dụng con dấu được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật doanh nghiệp.
2. Kèm theo đơn đề nghị, người đề nghị phải gửi bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật, tài liệu, chứng cứ (nếu có) để chứng minh cho những yêu cầu của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.
3. Đơn đề nghị và tài liệu, chứng cứ được gửi cho người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1296. Original section/article: 329. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục nhận đơn đề nghị xem xét bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát nhận đơn đề nghị do đương sự nộp trực tiếp tại Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát hoặc gửi qua dịch vụ bưu chính và phải ghi vào sổ nhận đơn, cấp giấy xác nhận đã nhận đơn cho
đương sự. Ngày gửi đơn được tính từ ngày đương sự nộp đơn tại Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát hoặc ngày có dấu dịch vụ bưu chính nơi gửi.
2. Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát chỉ thụ lý đơn đề nghị khi có đủ các nội dung quy định tại

Section 1297. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp đơn đề nghị không có đủ điều kiện theo quy định tại

Section 1298. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát yêu cầu người gửi đơn sửa đổi, bổ sung trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát; hết thời hạn này mà người gửi đơn không sửa đổi, bổ sung thì Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát trả lại đơn đề nghị, nêu rõ lý do cho đương sự và ghi chú vào sổ nhận đơn.
3. Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm phân công người có trách nhiệm tiến hành nghiên cứu đơn, thông báo, kiến nghị, hồ sơ vụ án, báo cáo người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị xem xét, quyết định; trường hợp không kháng nghị thì thông báo bằng văn bản, nêu rõ lý do cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có văn bản thông báo, kiến nghị.
Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phân công Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phân công Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao nghiên cứu đơn, thông báo, kiến nghị, hồ sơ vụ án, báo cáo Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao xem xét, quyết định kháng nghị. Trường hợp không kháng nghị thì Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao tự mình hoặc ủy quyền cho Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao thông báo bằng văn bản, nêu rõ lý do cho đương sự, cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có văn bản thông báo, kiến nghị.

Section 1299. Original section/article: 330. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bổ sung, xác minh tài liệu, chứng cứ trong thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Đương sự có quyền cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm nếu tài liệu, chứng cứ đó chưa được Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm, Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm yêu cầu đương sự giao nộp hoặc đã yêu cầu giao nộp nhưng đương sự không giao nộp được vì có lý do chính đáng hoặc tài liệu, chứng cứ mà đương sự không thể biết được trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án.
2. Trong quá trình giải quyết đơn đề nghị xem xét bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm có quyền yêu cầu người có đơn bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ hoặc tự mình kiểm tra, xác minh tài liệu, chứng cứ cần thiết.

Section 1300. Original section/article: 331. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao; bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án khác khi xét thấy cần thiết, trừ quyết định giám đốc thẩm của Hội đồng thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
2. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao có quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh, Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ.

Section 1301. Original section/article: 332. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hoãn, tạm đình chỉ thi hành bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật 1. Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án có quyền yêu cầu hoãn thi hành bản án, quyết định để xem xét việc kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám
đốc thẩm. Việc hoãn thi hành bản án, quyết định được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật thi hành án dân sự.
2. Người đã kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật có quyền quyết định tạm đình chỉ thi hành bản án, quyết định đó cho đến khi có quyết định giám đốc thẩm.

Section 1302. Original section/article: 333. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm Quyết định kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
1. Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định kháng nghị và số của quyết định kháng nghị;
2. Chức vụ của người ra quyết định kháng nghị;
3. Số, ngày, tháng, năm của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị;
4. Quyết định của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị;
5. Nhận xét, phân tích những vi phạm, sai lầm của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị;
6. Căn cứ pháp luật để quyết định kháng nghị;
7. Kháng nghị toàn bộ hoặc phần của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật;
8. Tên của Tòa án có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm vụ án;
9. Đề nghị của người kháng nghị.

Section 1303. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm 1. Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm có quyền kháng nghị trong thời hạn 03 năm, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có hiệu lực pháp luật, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
2. Trường hợp đã hết thời hạn kháng nghị theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này nhưng có các điều kiện sau đây thì thời hạn kháng nghị được kéo dài thêm 02 năm, kể từ ngày hết thời hạn kháng nghị:
a) Đương sự đã có đơn đề nghị theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1304. Original section/article: 328. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và sau khi hết thời hạn kháng nghị quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này đương sự vẫn tiếp tục có đơn đề nghị;
b) Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật có vi phạm pháp luật theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1305. Original section/article: 326. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, xâm phạm nghiêm trọng đến quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự, của người thứ ba, xâm phạm lợi ích của cộng đồng, lợi ích của Nhà nước và phải kháng nghị để khắc phục sai lầm trong bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật đó.

Section 1306. Original section/article: 335. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thay đổi, bổ sung, rút kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm 1. Người đã kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm có quyền thay đổi, bổ sung kháng nghị nếu chưa hết thời hạn kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1307. Original section/article: 334. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Việc thay đổi, bổ sung phải được thực hiện bằng quyết định. Quyết định thay đổi, bổ sung kháng nghị phải được gửi theo quy định tại

Section 1308. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Người đã kháng nghị có quyền rút một phần hoặc toàn bộ kháng nghị trước khi mở phiên tòa hoặc tại phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm. Việc rút kháng nghị phải được thực hiện bằng quyết định.
3. Khi nhận được quyết định rút toàn bộ kháng nghị, Tòa án giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét xử giám đốc thẩm.

Section 1309. Original section/article: 336. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm 1. Quyết định kháng nghị giám đốc thẩm phải được gửi ngay cho Tòa án ra bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị, các đương sự, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền, người khác có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến nội dung kháng nghị.
2. Trường hợp Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hoặc Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao kháng nghị thì quyết định kháng nghị cùng hồ sơ vụ án phải được gửi ngay cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp. Viện kiểm sát nghiên cứu hồ sơ trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ án; hết thời hạn này, Viện kiểm sát phải chuyển hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm.
3. Trường hợp Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao hoặc Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao kháng nghị thì quyết định kháng nghị phải được gửi ngay cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm.

Section 1310. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm 1. Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh, Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ bị kháng nghị như sau:
a) Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm ba Thẩm phán đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh, Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm;
b) Toàn thể Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật quy định tại điểm a khoản này nhưng có tính chất phức tạp hoặc bản án, quyết định đã được Ủy ban thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm ba Thẩm phán nhưng không đạt được sự thống nhất khi biểu quyết thông qua quyết định về việc giải quyết vụ án.
2. Hội đồng thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao giám đốc thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao bị kháng nghị như sau:
a) Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm năm Thẩm phán đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm;
b) Toàn thể Hội đồng thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm đối với bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật quy định tại điểm a khoản này nhưng có tính chất phức tạp hoặc bản án, quyết định đã được Hội đồng thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xét xử giám đốc thẩm bằng Hội đồng xét xử gồm năm Thẩm phán nhưng không đạt được sự thống nhất khi biểu quyết thông qua quyết định về việc giải quyết vụ án.
3. Những vụ án có tính chất phức tạp quy định tại điểm b khoản 1 và điểm b khoản 2 Điều này là những vụ án thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Quy định của pháp luật về những vấn đề cần giải quyết trong vụ án chưa rõ ràng, chưa được hướng dẫn áp dụng thống nhất;
b) Việc đánh giá chứng cứ, áp dụng pháp luật có nhiều ý kiến khác nhau;
c) Việc giải quyết vụ án liên quan đến lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước, bảo vệ quyền con người, quyền công dân được dư luận xã hội đặc biệt quan tâm.
4. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xem xét, quyết định việc tổ chức xét xử giám đốc thẩm trong các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét, quyết định việc tổ chức xét xử giám đốc thẩm trong các trường hợp quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này.
5. Trường hợp những bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật về cùng một vụ án dân sự cùng thuộc thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao và Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thì Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm toàn bộ vụ án.

Section 1311. Original section/article: 338. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những người tham gia phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm 1. Phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm phải có sự tham gia của Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
2. Trường hợp xét thấy cần thiết, Tòa án triệu tập đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự hoặc người tham gia tố tụng khác có liên quan đến việc kháng nghị tham gia phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm; nếu họ vắng mặt tại phiên tòa thì Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm vẫn tiến hành phiên tòa.

Section 1312. Original section/article: 339. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn mở phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm Trong thời hạn 04 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được kháng nghị kèm theo hồ sơ vụ án, Tòa án có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm phải mở phiên tòa để xét xử vụ án theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm.

Section 1313. Original section/article: 340. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm Chánh án Tòa án phân công một Thẩm phán làm bản thuyết trình về vụ án tại phiên tòa. Bản thuyết trình tóm tắt nội dung vụ án và các bản án, quyết định của các cấp Tòa án, nội dung của kháng nghị. Bản thuyết trình phải được gửi cho các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm chậm nhất là 07 ngày trước ngày mở phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm.

Section 1314. Original section/article: 341. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục xét xử tại phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm 1. Sau khi chủ tọa khai mạc phiên tòa, một thành viên Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm trình bày tóm tắt nội dung vụ án, quá trình xét xử vụ án, quyết định của bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị, các căn cứ, nhận định của kháng nghị và đề nghị của người kháng nghị. Trường hợp Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị thì đại diện Viện kiểm sát trình bày nội dung kháng nghị.
2. Đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự hoặc người tham gia tố tụng khác được Tòa án triệu tập đến phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm trình bày ý kiến về những vấn đề mà Hội đồng giám đốc thẩm yêu cầu. Trường hợp họ vắng mặt nhưng có văn bản trình bày ý kiến thì Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm công bố ý kiến của họ.
3. Đại diện Viện kiểm sát phát biểu ý kiến về quyết định kháng nghị và việc giải quyết vụ án.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên tòa, đại diện Viện kiểm sát phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ vụ án.
4. Các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm phát biểu ý kiến và thảo luận. Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm nghị án và biểu quyết về việc giải quyết vụ án và công bố nội dung quyết định về việc giải quyết vụ án tại phiên tòa. Việc nghị án phải được thực hiện theo các nguyên tắc quy định tại

Section 1315. Original section/article: 264. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Trường hợp Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét xử theo quy định tại điểm a khoản 1

Section 1316. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử phải được tất cả thành viên tham gia Hội đồng biểu quyết tán thành.
Trường hợp xét xử theo quy định tại điểm b khoản 1

Section 1317. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì phiên tòa xét xử của toàn thể Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao phải có ít nhất hai phần ba tổng số thành viên tham gia; quyết định của Ủy ban Thẩm phán phải được quá nửa tổng số thành viên biểu quyết tán thành.
6. Trường hợp Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xét xử theo quy định tại điểm a khoản 2

Section 1318. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử phải được tất cả thành viên tham gia Hội đồng biểu quyết tán thành.
Trường hợp xét xử theo quy định tại điểm b khoản 2

Section 1319. Original section/article: 337. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì phiên tòa xét xử của toàn thể Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải có ít nhất hai phần ba tổng số thành viên tham gia; quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán phải được quá nửa tổng số thành viên biểu quyết tán thành.

Section 1320. Original section/article: 342. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi giám đốc thẩm 1. Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm chỉ xem xét lại phần quyết định của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị hoặc có liên quan đến việc xem xét nội dung kháng nghị.
2. Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm có quyền xem xét phần quyết định của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật không bị kháng nghị hoặc không liên quan đến việc xem xét nội dung kháng nghị, nếu phần quyết định đó xâm phạm đến lợi ích công cộng, lợi ích của Nhà nước, lợi ích của người thứ ba không phải là đương sự trong vụ án.

Section 1321. Original section/article: 343. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm có thẩm quyền sau đây:
1. Không chấp nhận kháng nghị và giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật;
2. Hủy bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định đúng pháp luật của Tòa án cấp dưới đã bị hủy hoặc bị sửa;
3. Hủy một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật để xét xử lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm hoặc xét xử lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm;
4. Hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án;
5. Sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật.

Section 1322. Original section/article: 344. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định đúng pháp luật của Tòa án cấp dưới đã bị hủy hoặc bị sửa Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị và giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp dưới xét xử đúng pháp luật nhưng đã bị bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị hủy bỏ hoặc sửa đổi một phần hay toàn bộ.
Trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã thi hành được một phần hoặc toàn bộ thì Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm phải giải quyết hậu quả của việc thi hành án.

Section 1323. Original section/article: 345. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật để xét xử lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm hoặc xét xử lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định hủy một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị để xét xử lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm hoặc xét xử lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm trong trường hợp sau đây:
1. Việc thu thập chứng cứ và chứng minh chưa được thực hiện đầy đủ hoặc không theo đúng quy định tại Chương VII của Bộ luật này;
2. Kết luận trong bản án, quyết định không phù hợp với những tình tiết khách quan của vụ án hoặc có sai lầm nghiêm trọng trong việc áp dụng pháp luật;
3. Thành phần của Hội đồng xét xử sơ thẩm hoặc phúc thẩm không đúng quy định của Bộ luật này hoặc có vi phạm nghiêm trọng khác về thủ tục tố tụng ảnh hưởng đến quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự.

Section 1324. Original section/article: 346. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định hủy bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án, nếu vụ án đó thuộc một trong các trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1325. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã thi hành được một phần hoặc toàn bộ thì Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm phải giải quyết hậu quả của việc thi hành án.

Section 1326. Original section/article: 347. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật 1. Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật khi có đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Tài liệu, chứng cứ trong hồ sơ vụ án đã đầy đủ, rõ ràng; có đủ căn cứ để làm rõ các tình tiết trong vụ án;
b) Việc sửa bản án, quyết định bị kháng nghị không làm ảnh hưởng đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác.
2. Trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã thi hành được một phần hoặc toàn bộ thì Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm phải giải quyết hậu quả của việc thi hành án.

Section 1327. Original section/article: 348. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định giám đốc thẩm 1. Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định nhân danh nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam.
2. Quyết định giám đốc thẩm phải có các nội dung sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm và địa điểm mở phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm;
b) Họ, tên các thành viên Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm. Trường hợp Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm là Ủy ban Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao hoặc Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thì ghi họ, tên, chức vụ của chủ tọa phiên tòa và số lượng thành viên tham gia xét xử;
c) Họ, tên Thư ký Tòa án, Kiểm sát viên tham gia phiên tòa giám đốc thẩm;
d) Tên vụ án mà Hội đồng đưa ra xét xử giám đốc thẩm;
đ) Tên, địa chỉ của các đương sự trong vụ án;
e) Tóm tắt nội dung vụ án, quyết định của bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị;
g) Quyết định kháng nghị, lý do kháng nghị;
h) Nhận định của Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm, trong đó phải phân tích quan điểm về việc giải quyết vụ án và những căn cứ để chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận kháng nghị;
i) Điểm, khoản, điều của Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự, văn bản quy phạm pháp luật khác mà Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm căn cứ để ra quyết định;
k) Quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm.
3. Quyết định của Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao cần có lập luận để làm rõ quy định của pháp luật còn có cách hiểu khác nhau; phân tích, giải thích các vấn đề, sự kiện pháp lý và chỉ ra nguyên nhân, đường lối xử lý, quy phạm pháp luật cần áp dụng (nếu có).

Section 1328. Original section/article: 349. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyết định giám đốc thẩm Quyết định giám đốc thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày Hội đồng giám đốc thẩm ra quyết định.

Section 1329. Original section/article: 350. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định giám đốc thẩm 1. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định, Hội đồng xét xử giám đốc thẩm phải gửi quyết định giám đốc thẩm cho cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân sau đây:
a) Đương sự, người khác có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan theo quyết định giám đốc thẩm;
b) Tòa án ra bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị;
c) Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền.
2. Quyết định giám đốc thẩm được Tòa án có thẩm quyền giám đốc thẩm công bố trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), trừ quyết định có chứa thông tin quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1330. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Chương XXI THỦ TỤC TÁI THẨM

Section 1331. Original section/article: 351. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tính chất của tái thẩm Tái thẩm là xét lại bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật nhưng bị kháng nghị vì có tình tiết mới được phát hiện có thể làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung của bản án, quyết định mà Tòa án, các đương sự không biết được khi Tòa án ra bản án, quyết định đó.

Section 1332. Original section/article: 352. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Căn cứ để kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm khi có một trong những căn cứ sau đây:
1. Mới phát hiện được tình tiết quan trọng của vụ án mà đương sự đã không thể biết được trong quá trình giải quyết vụ án;
2. Có cơ sở chứng minh kết luận của người giám định, lời dịch của người phiên dịch không đúng sự thật hoặc có giả mạo chứng cứ;
3. Thẩm phán, Hội thẩm nhân dân, Kiểm sát viên cố ý làm sai lệch hồ sơ vụ án hoặc cố ý kết luận trái pháp luật;
4. Bản án, quyết định hình sự, hành chính, dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của Tòa án hoặc quyết định của cơ quan nhà nước mà Tòa án căn cứ vào đó để giải quyết vụ án đã bị hủy bỏ.

Section 1333. Original section/article: 353. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo và xác minh tình tiết mới được phát hiện 1. Đương sự hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác có quyền phát hiện tình tiết mới của vụ án và thông báo bằng văn bản cho người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1334. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Trường hợp phát hiện tình tiết mới của vụ án, Viện kiểm sát, Tòa án phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị quy định tại

Section 1335. Original section/article: 354. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm 1. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao; bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án khác khi xét thấy cần thiết, trừ quyết định giám đốc thẩm của Hội đồng thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
2. Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao có thẩm quyền kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh, Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ.
3. Người đã kháng nghị bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật có quyền quyết định tạm đình chỉ thi hành bản án, quyết định đó cho đến khi có quyết định tái thẩm.

Section 1336. Original section/article: 355. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm Thời hạn kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm là 01 năm, kể từ ngày người có thẩm quyền kháng nghị biết được căn cứ để kháng nghị theo thủ tục tái thẩm quy định tại

Section 1337. Original section/article: 356. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Hội đồng xét xử tái thẩm Hội đồng xét xử tái thẩm có thẩm quyền sau đây:
1. Không chấp nhận kháng nghị và giữ nguyên bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật.
2. Hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật để xét xử sơ thẩm lại theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định.
3. Hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và đình chỉ giải quyết vụ án.

Section 1338. Original section/article: 357. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Áp dụng các quy định về thủ tục giám đốc thẩm Các quy định khác về thủ tục tái thẩm được thực hiện như các quy định của Bộ luật này về thủ tục giám đốc thẩm.
Chương XXII THỦ TỤC ĐẶC BIỆT XEM XÉT LẠI QUYẾT ĐỊNH CỦA HỘI ĐỒNG THẨM PHÁN 
TÒA ÁN NHÂN DÂN TỐI CAO

Section 1339. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu, kiến nghị, đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao 1. Khi có căn cứ xác định quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng hoặc phát hiện tình tiết quan trọng mới có thể làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung quyết định mà Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, đương sự đã không thể biết được khi ra quyết định đó, nếu có yêu cầu của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao hoặc đề nghị của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thì Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét lại quyết định đó.
2. Trường hợp có yêu cầu của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội thì Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có trách nhiệm báo cáo Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao để xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
3. Trường hợp có kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao hoặc Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phát hiện vi phạm, tình tiết mới thì Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có trách nhiệm báo cáo Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị đó.
4. Phiên họp của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị quy định tại khoản 3 Điều này phải có sự tham dự của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao.

Section 1340. Original section/article: 359. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao 1. Sau khi nhận được yêu cầu của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội hoặc sau khi Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có văn bản đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao theo quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1341. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án nhân dân tối cao gửi cho Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao bản sao văn bản yêu cầu, kiến nghị hoặc đề nghị đó kèm theo hồ sơ vụ án để Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao nghiên cứu và chuẩn bị ý kiến phát biểu tại phiên họp xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị, yêu cầu. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ án, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phải trả lại hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
2. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao hoặc kể từ ngày Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có văn bản đề nghị thì Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải mở phiên họp để xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị.
Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thông báo bằng văn bản về thời gian mở phiên họp để xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị cho Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao.
Đại diện Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội được mời tham dự phiên họp của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao để xem xét kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội.
3. Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị theo trình tự như sau:
a) Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao tự mình hoặc phân công một thành viên Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao trình bày tóm tắt nội dung vụ án và quá trình giải quyết vụ án;
b) Đại diện Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao, Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có kiến nghị, đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao trình bày về nội dung kiến nghị, đề nghị; căn cứ của việc kiến nghị, đề nghị; phân tích, đánh giá các tình tiết của vụ án, chứng cứ cũ và chứng cứ mới bổ sung (nếu có) để làm rõ việc vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng trong quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao hoặc những tình tiết quan trọng mới có thể làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao;
c) Trường hợp xem xét kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội hoặc xem xét đề nghị của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thì Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phát biểu quan điểm và lý do nhất trí hoặc không nhất trí với kiến nghị, đề nghị đó.
Ý kiến phát biểu của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phải thể hiện bằng văn bản, có chữ ký của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao và phải được gửi cho Tòa án nhân dân tối cao trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày kết thúc phiên họp;
d) Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thảo luận và biểu quyết theo đa số về việc nhất trí hoặc không nhất trí với kiến nghị, đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao;
đ) Trường hợp nhất trí với kiến nghị của Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, kiến nghị của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao hoặc đề nghị của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao thì Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quyết định về việc mở phiên họp để xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, đồng thời giao cho Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao tổ chức nghiên cứu hồ sơ, báo cáo Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao xem xét, quyết định tại phiên họp xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
Trường hợp không nhất trí kiến nghị, đề nghị thì Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do cho cá nhân, cơ quan đã kiến nghị, đề nghị;
e) Mọi diễn biến tại phiên họp xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị và các quyết định được thông qua tại phiên họp phải được ghi vào biên bản phiên họp và lưu hồ sơ xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị;
g) Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày kết thúc phiên họp xem xét kiến nghị, đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao gửi cho Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao, Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội văn bản thông báo về việc Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao nhất trí hoặc không nhất trí với kiến nghị, đề nghị xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
4. Theo yêu cầu của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội hoặc khi có quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao về việc mở phiên họp để xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quy định tại điểm đ khoản 3 Điều này thì Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao tổ chức việc nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ án, xác minh, thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ trong trường hợp cần thiết.
Việc nghiên cứu hồ sơ vụ án, xác minh, thu thập tài liệu, chứng cứ phải làm rõ có hay không có vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng hoặc tình tiết quan trọng mới có thể làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
5. Trong thời hạn 04 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1342. Original section/article: 358. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này hoặc kể từ ngày có quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quy định tại điểm đ khoản 3 Điều này, Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải mở phiên họp với sự tham gia của toàn thể Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao để xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
Tòa án nhân dân tối cao gửi cho Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao văn bản thông báo về thời gian mở phiên họp xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao kèm theo hồ sơ vụ án. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ án, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phải trả lại hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án nhân dân tối cao.
Phiên họp Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải có sự tham dự của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao. Trường hợp xét thấy cần thiết, Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có thể mời cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan tham dự phiên họp.
6. Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phải tham dự phiên họp xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao và phát biểu quan điểm về việc có hay không có vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng hoặc tình tiết quan trọng mới có thể làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao và quan điểm về việc giải quyết vụ án.
Ý kiến phát biểu của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao phải thể hiện bằng văn bản, có chữ ký của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao và phải được gửi cho Tòa án nhân dân tối cao trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày kết thúc phiên họp.
7. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao ra quyết định quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1343. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án nhân dân tối cao gửi quyết định cho Ủy ban thường vụ Quốc hội, Ủy ban tư pháp của Quốc hội, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao, Tòa án nhân dân đã giải quyết vụ án và các đương sự.

Section 1344. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền xem xét lại quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao 1. Sau khi nghe Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân tối cao báo cáo, nghe ý kiến của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân tối cao, của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có liên quan được mời tham dự (nếu có) và khi xét thấy quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng hoặc có tình tiết quan trọng mới làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao; bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án cấp dưới có vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng hoặc có tình tiết quan trọng mới làm thay đổi cơ bản nội dung bản án, quyết định thì tùy từng trường hợp, Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quyết định như sau:
a) Hủy quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và quyết định về nội dung vụ án;
b) Hủy quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và xác định trách nhiệm bồi thường thiệt hại của Tòa án nhân dân tối cao có quyết định vi phạm pháp luật nghiêm trọng bị hủy do lỗi vô ý hoặc cố ý và gây thiệt hại cho đương sự hoặc xác định trách nhiệm bồi hoàn giá trị tài sản theo quy định của pháp luật;
c) Hủy quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao, hủy bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật để giao hồ sơ vụ án cho Tòa án cấp dưới giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao phải được ít nhất ba phần tư tổng số thành viên của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao biểu quyết tán thành.
Phần thứ sáu THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VIỆC DÂN SỰ 
Chương XXIII QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG VỀ THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VIỆC DÂN SỰ

Section 1345. Original section/article: 361. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phạm vi áp dụng Việc dân sự là việc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân không có tranh chấp, nhưng có yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận hoặc không công nhận một sự kiện pháp lý là căn cứ làm phát sinh quyền, nghĩa vụ dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động của mình hoặc của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân khác; yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận cho mình quyền về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động.
Những quy định của Phần này được áp dụng để giải quyết việc dân sự quy định tại các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 và 10

Section 1346. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, các khoản 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 và 11

Section 1347. Original section/article: 29. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, các khoản 1, 2, 3 và 6

Section 1348. Original section/article: 31. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, các khoản 1, 2 và 5

Section 1349. Original section/article: 33. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Trường hợp Phần này không quy định thì áp dụng những quy định khác của Bộ luật này để giải quyết việc dân sự.

Section 1350. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự phải gửi đơn đến Tòa án có thẩm quyền quy định tại Mục 2 Chương III của Bộ luật này.
Trường hợp Chấp hành viên yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự thì có quyền, nghĩa vụ của người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
2. Đơn yêu cầu phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm đơn;
b) Tên Tòa án có thẩm quyền giải quyết việc dân sự;
c) Tên, địa chỉ; số điện thoại, fax, địa chỉ thư điện tử (nếu có) của người yêu cầu;
d) Những vấn đề cụ thể yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết và lý do, mục đích, căn cứ của việc yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự đó;
đ) Tên, địa chỉ của những người có liên quan đến việc giải quyết việc dân sự đó (nếu có);
e) Các thông tin khác mà người yêu cầu xét thấy cần thiết cho việc giải quyết yêu cầu của mình;
g) Người yêu cầu là cá nhân phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ, nếu là cơ quan, tổ chức thì đại diện hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức đó phải ký tên và đóng dấu vào phần cuối đơn; trường hợp tổ chức yêu cầu là doanh nghiệp thì việc sử dụng con dấu được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật doanh nghiệp.
3. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1351. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục nhận và xử lý đơn yêu cầu 1. Thủ tục nhận đơn yêu cầu được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1352. Original section/article: 191. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận đơn yêu cầu và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, Chánh án Tòa án phân công Thẩm phán giải quyết đơn yêu cầu.
2. Trường hợp đơn yêu cầu chưa ghi đầy đủ nội dung theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1353. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Thẩm phán yêu cầu người yêu cầu sửa đổi, bổ sung trong thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu. Thủ tục sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn yêu cầu được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1354. Original section/article: 193. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trường hợp người yêu cầu thực hiện đầy đủ yêu cầu sửa đổi, bổ sung thì Thẩm phán tiến hành thủ tục thụ lý việc dân sự.
Hết thời hạn quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này mà người yêu cầu không sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn yêu cầu thì Thẩm phán trả lại đơn yêu cầu và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo cho họ.
4. Trường hợp xét thấy đơn yêu cầu và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo đã đủ điều kiện thụ lý thì Thẩm phán thực hiện như sau:
a) Thông báo cho người yêu cầu về việc nộp lệ phí yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được thông báo nộp lệ phí, trừ trường hợp người đó được miễn hoặc không phải nộp lệ phí theo quy định của pháp luật về phí, lệ phí;
b) Tòa án thụ lý đơn yêu cầu khi người yêu cầu nộp cho Tòa án biên lai thu tiền lệ phí yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự;
c) Trường hợp người yêu cầu được miễn hoặc không phải nộp lệ phí thì Thẩm phán thụ lý việc dân sự kể từ ngày nhận được đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1355. Original section/article: 364. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trả lại đơn yêu cầu 1. Tòa án trả lại đơn yêu cầu trong những trường hợp sau đây:
a) Người yêu cầu không có quyền yêu cầu hoặc không có đủ năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự;
b) Sự việc người yêu cầu yêu cầu đã được Tòa án hoặc cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền giải quyết;
c) Việc dân sự không thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án;
d) Người yêu cầu không sửa đổi, bổ sung đơn yêu cầu trong thời hạn quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1356. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
đ) Người yêu cầu không nộp lệ phí trong thời hạn quy định tại điểm a khoản 4

Section 1357. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, trừ trường hợp được miễn hoặc không phải nộp lệ phí hoặc chậm nộp vì sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan;
e) Người yêu cầu rút đơn yêu cầu;
g) Những trường hợp khác theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Khi trả lại đơn yêu cầu và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo, Tòa án phải thông báo bằng văn bản và nêu rõ lý do.
3. Việc khiếu nại và giải quyết khiếu nại việc trả lại đơn yêu cầu được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1358. Original section/article: 365. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo thụ lý đơn yêu cầu 1. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày thụ lý đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án phải thông báo bằng văn bản cho người yêu cầu, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc giải quyết việc dân sự, cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp về việc Tòa án đã thụ lý đơn yêu cầu.
2. Văn bản thông báo phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm làm văn bản thông báo;
b) Tên, địa chỉ Tòa án đã thụ lý đơn yêu cầu;
c) Tên, địa chỉ của đương sự;
d) Những vấn đề cụ thể đương sự yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết;
đ) Danh mục tài liệu, chứng cứ đương sự nộp kèm theo đơn yêu cầu;
e) Thời hạn người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan phải có ý kiến bằng văn bản nộp cho Tòa án đối với yêu cầu của người yêu cầu và tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo (nếu có);
g) Hậu quả pháp lý của việc người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan không nộp cho Tòa án văn bản về ý kiến của mình đối với yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự.

Section 1359. Original section/article: 366. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu 1. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu là 01 tháng, kể từ ngày Tòa án thụ lý đơn yêu cầu, trừ trường hợp Bộ luật này có quy định khác.
2. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án tiến hành công việc sau đây:
a) Trường hợp xét thấy tài liệu, chứng cứ chưa đủ căn cứ để Tòa án giải quyết thì Tòa án yêu cầu đương sự bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án;
b) Trường hợp đương sự có yêu cầu hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ; triệu tập người làm chứng, trưng cầu giám định, định giá tài sản. Nếu hết thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này mà chưa có kết quả giám định, định giá tài sản thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu được kéo dài nhưng không quá 01 tháng;
c) Quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu và trả lại đơn yêu cầu, tài liệu, chứng cứ kèm theo nếu người yêu cầu rút đơn yêu cầu;
d) Quyết định mở phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự.
3. Tòa án phải gửi ngay quyết định mở phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự và hồ sơ việc dân sự cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp để nghiên cứu. Viện kiểm sát phải nghiên cứu trong thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ; hết thời hạn này, Viện kiểm sát phải trả hồ sơ cho Tòa án để mở phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự.
4. Tòa án phải mở phiên họp để giải quyết việc dân sự trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp.

Section 1360. Original section/article: 367. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những người tham gia phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự 
1. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phải tham gia phiên họp; trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
2. Người yêu cầu hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ phải tham gia phiên họp theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án.
Người yêu cầu vắng mặt lần thứ nhất thì Tòa án hoãn phiên họp, trừ trường hợp người yêu cầu đề nghị Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự vắng mặt họ. Trường hợp người yêu cầu đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt thì bị coi là từ bỏ yêu cầu và Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết việc dân sự; trong trường hợp này, quyền yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự đó theo thủ tục do Bộ luật này quy định vẫn được bảo đảm.
3. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ được Tòa án triệu tập tham gia phiên họp. Trong trường hợp cần thiết, Tòa án có thể triệu tập người làm chứng, người giám định, người phiên dịch tham gia phiên họp; nếu có người vắng mặt thì Tòa án quyết định hoãn phiên họp hoặc vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.

Section 1361. Original section/article: 368. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định việc thay đổi người tiến hành tố tụng khi giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Trước khi mở phiên họp, việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Thư ký phiên họp do Chánh án của Tòa án đang giải quyết việc dân sự đó quyết định; nếu Thẩm phán bị thay đổi là Chánh án của Tòa án đang giải quyết việc dân sự đó thì việc thay đổi do Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp quyết định.
2. Tại phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự, việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Thư ký phiên họp được thực hiện như sau:
a) Trường hợp việc dân sự do một Thẩm phán giải quyết thì việc thay đổi Thẩm phán, Thư ký phiên họp do Chánh án của Tòa án đang giải quyết việc dân sự đó quyết định; nếu Thẩm phán bị thay đổi là Chánh án của Tòa án đang giải quyết việc dân sự đó thì việc thay đổi do Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp quyết định;
b) Trường hợp việc dân sự do Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự gồm ba Thẩm phán giải quyết thì việc thay đổi thành viên Hội đồng, Thư ký phiên họp do Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự quyết định.
3. Trước khi mở phiên họp, việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp quyết định.
Tại phiên họp, việc thay đổi Kiểm sát viên do Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự quyết định. Trường hợp phải thay đổi Kiểm sát viên thì Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự ra quyết định hoãn phiên họp và thông báo cho Viện kiểm sát.
Việc cử Kiểm sát viên thay thế Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp quyết định. Nếu Kiểm sát viên bị thay đổi là Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát thì do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp quyết định.

Section 1362. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục tiến hành phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự được tiến hành theo trình tự sau đây:
a) Thư ký phiên họp báo cáo Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người tham gia phiên họp;
b) Thẩm phán chủ tọa phiên họp khai mạc phiên họp, kiểm tra về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người được triệu tập tham gia phiên họp và căn cước của họ, giải thích quyền và nghĩa vụ của người tham gia phiên họp;
c) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người yêu cầu, người yêu cầu hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ trình bày về những vấn đề cụ thể yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết, lý do, mục đích và căn cứ của việc yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết việc dân sự đó;
d) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ trình bày ý kiến về những vấn đề có liên quan đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trong việc giải quyết việc dân sự;
đ) Người làm chứng trình bày ý kiến; người giám định trình bày kết luận giám định, giải thích những vấn đề còn chưa rõ hoặc có mâu thuẫn (nếu có);
e) Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự xem xét tài liệu, chứng cứ;
g) Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc giải quyết việc dân sự và gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ việc dân sự ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên họp;
h) Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự xem xét, quyết định chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự.
2. Trường hợp có người được Tòa án triệu tập tham gia phiên họp vắng mặt thì Thẩm phán, Hội đồng giải quyết việc dân sự cho công bố lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ do người đó cung cấp trước khi xem xét tài liệu, chứng cứ.

Section 1363. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự phải có các nội dung sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định;
b) Tên Tòa án ra quyết định;
c) Họ, tên của Thẩm phán, Kiểm sát viên, Thư ký phiên họp;
d) Tên, địa chỉ của người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự;
đ) Những vấn đề cụ thể yêu cầu Tòa án giải quyết;
e) Tên, địa chỉ của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan;
g) Nhận định của Tòa án và những căn cứ để chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu;
h) Căn cứ pháp luật để giải quyết việc dân sự;
i) Quyết định của Tòa án;
k) Lệ phí phải nộp.
2. Quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự phải được gửi cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, người yêu cầu giải quyết việc dân sự, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc giải quyết việc dân sự trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định.
Việc gửi quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự cho cơ quan thi hành án được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự.
3. Quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án có liên quan đến việc thay đổi hộ tịch của cá nhân phải được Tòa án gửi cho Ủy ban nhân dân nơi đã đăng ký hộ tịch của cá nhân đó theo quy định của Luật hộ tịch.
4. Quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án được công bố trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), trừ quyết định có chứa thông tin quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1364. Original section/article: 371. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kháng cáo, kháng nghị quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự Người yêu cầu, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc giải quyết việc dân sự có quyền kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp, Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp có quyền kháng nghị quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự để yêu cầu Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp giải quyết lại theo thủ tục phúc thẩm, trừ quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự quy định tại khoản 7

Section 1365. Original section/article: 27. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1366. Original section/article: 372. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Người yêu cầu, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc giải quyết việc dân sự có quyền kháng cáo quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định. Trường hợp họ không có mặt tại phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự thì thời hạn đó được tính từ ngày họ nhận được quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự hoặc kể từ ngày quyết định đó được thông báo, niêm yết.
2. Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp có quyền kháng nghị quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự trong thời hạn 10 ngày, Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp có quyền kháng nghị trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định.

Section 1367. Original section/article: 373. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án nhận kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
2. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị, Tòa án tiến hành các công việc sau đây:
a) Trường hợp xét thấy tài liệu, chứng cứ chưa đủ căn cứ để Tòa án giải quyết thì Tòa án yêu cầu đương sự bổ sung tài liệu, chứng cứ trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án;
b) Trường hợp đương sự có yêu cầu hoặc khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán ra quyết định yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ; triệu tập người làm chứng, trưng cầu giám định, định giá. Nếu hết thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này mà chưa có kết quả giám định, định giá thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị được kéo dài nhưng không quá 15 ngày;
c) Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị, nếu tất cả người kháng cáo rút đơn kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút kháng nghị thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét đơn yêu cầu theo thủ tục phúc thẩm. Trong trường hợp này, quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự theo thủ tục sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ;
d) Quyết định mở phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự.
3. Tòa án phải gửi ngay quyết định mở phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự và hồ sơ việc dân sự cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp để nghiên cứu. Viện kiểm sát phải nghiên cứu trong thời hạn
07 ngày, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ; hết thời hạn này, Viện kiểm sát phải trả hồ sơ cho Tòa án để mở phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự.
4. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp, Thẩm phán phải mở phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự.

Section 1368. Original section/article: 374. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những người tham gia phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phải tham gia phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự; trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp, trừ trường hợp Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị phúc thẩm.
2. Người có đơn kháng cáo, người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ phải tham gia phiên họp theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án.
Người kháng cáo vắng mặt lần thứ nhất có lý do chính đáng thì Tòa án hoãn phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự, trừ trường hợp người kháng cáo yêu cầu giải quyết vắng mặt họ. Nếu người kháng cáo đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt thì bị coi là từ bỏ kháng cáo và Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết phúc thẩm việc dân sự đối với yêu cầu kháng cáo của họ, trừ trường hợp họ có đơn đề nghị giải quyết vắng mặt hoặc do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan.
3. Người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, người đại diện hợp pháp, người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của họ được Tòa án triệu tập tham gia phiên họp. Trong trường hợp cần thiết, Tòa án có thể triệu tập người làm chứng, người giám định, người phiên dịch tham gia phiên họp; nếu có người vắng mặt thì Tòa án quyết định hoãn phiên họp hoặc vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.

Section 1369. Original section/article: 375. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục tiến hành phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự 1. Phiên họp phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự được tiến hành theo trình tự sau đây:
a) Thư ký phiên họp báo cáo về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người tham gia phiên họp;
b) Thẩm phán chủ tọa phiên họp khai mạc phiên họp, kiểm tra về sự có mặt, vắng mặt của những người được triệu tập tham gia phiên họp và căn cước của họ, giải thích quyền và nghĩa vụ của người tham gia phiên họp;
c) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người kháng cáo, người kháng cáo hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ trình bày về nội dung kháng cáo và căn cứ của việc kháng cáo;
Trường hợp chỉ có Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị thì Kiểm sát viên trình bày về nội dung kháng nghị và căn cứ của việc kháng nghị. Trường hợp vừa có kháng cáo, vừa có kháng nghị thì các đương sự trình bày về nội dung kháng cáo và các căn cứ của việc kháng cáo trước, sau đó Kiểm sát viên trình bày về nội dung kháng nghị và căn cứ của việc kháng nghị. Trường hợp Viện kiểm sát không kháng nghị thì Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc giải quyết kháng cáo trước khi Hội đồng phúc thẩm ra quyết định.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên họp, Kiểm sát viên phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ việc dân sự;
d) Người bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ trình bày ý kiến về những vấn đề có liên quan đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan trong nội dung kháng cáo, kháng nghị;
đ) Người làm chứng trình bày ý kiến; người giám định trình bày kết luận giám định, giải thích những vấn đề còn chưa rõ hoặc có mâu thuẫn.
2. Trường hợp có người được Tòa án triệu tập tham gia phiên họp vắng mặt thì Thẩm phán cho công bố lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ do người đó cung cấp.
3. Hội đồng phúc thẩm xem xét quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị, tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan và ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
b) Sửa quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
c) Hủy quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ việc dân sự cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để giải quyết lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm;
d) Hủy quyết định giải quyết việc dân sự của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết việc dân sự;
đ) Đình chỉ giải quyết việc xét đơn yêu cầu theo thủ tục phúc thẩm nếu tại phiên họp tất cả người kháng cáo rút đơn kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút kháng nghị.
4. Quyết định phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày ra quyết định và được gửi cho cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1370. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Quyết định phúc thẩm giải quyết việc dân sự có hiệu lực pháp luật được công bố trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), trừ quyết định có chứa thông tin quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1371. Original section/article: 109. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Chương XXIV THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU TUYÊN BỐ MỘT NGƯỜI MẤT NĂNG LỰC HÀNH 
VI DÂN SỰ, BỊ HẠN CHẾ NĂNG LỰC HÀNH VI DÂN SỰ HOẶC CÓ KHÓ KHĂN TRONG NHẬN THỨC, LÀM CHỦ HÀNH VI

Section 1372. Original section/article: 376. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi 1. Người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Người thành niên không đủ khả năng nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi do tình trạng thể chất, tinh thần nhưng chưa đến mức mất năng lực hành vi dân sự có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố họ là người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1373. Original section/article: 377. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, theo đề nghị của người yêu cầu, Tòa án có thể trưng cầu giám định sức khỏe, bệnh tật của người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc giám định pháp y tâm thần đối với người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi. Trong trường hợp này, khi nhận được kết luận giám định, Tòa án phải ra quyết định mở phiên họp để xét đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1374. Original section/article: 378. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.
Trong quyết định tuyên bố một người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, Tòa án phải xác định người đại diện theo pháp luật của người bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự và phạm vi đại diện.
Trong quyết định tuyên bố một người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi, Tòa án phải chỉ định người giám hộ, xác định quyền, nghĩa vụ của người giám hộ.

Section 1375. Original section/article: 379. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi Khi người bị Tòa án tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi không còn ở trong tình trạng đã bị tuyên bố thì chính người đó hoặc người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức hữu quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.

Section 1376. Original section/article: 380. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định của Tòa án trong trường hợp chấp nhận yêu cầu hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự, bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố mất năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự hoặc có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi.
Chương XXV THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU THÔNG BÁO TÌM KIẾM NGƯỜI VẮNG MẶT TẠI 
NƠI CƯ TRÚ

Section 1377. Original section/article: 381. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 1. Người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú khi người đó biệt tích 06 tháng liền trở lên, đồng thời có thể yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt đó theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh là người bị yêu cầu biệt tích 06 tháng liền trở lên; trường hợp có yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt thì phải cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ về tình hình tài sản của người đó, việc quản lý tài sản hiện có và danh sách những người thân thích của người đó.

Section 1378. Original section/article: 382. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ xét đơn yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú, nếu người bị yêu cầu thông báo tìm kiếm trở về và yêu cầu Tòa án đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1379. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 
Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú; trường hợp có yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người vắng mặt đó tại nơi cư trú và được chấp nhận thì trong quyết định, Tòa án còn phải quyết định áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người đó theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1380. Original section/article: 384. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú Thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
1. Ngày, tháng, năm ra thông báo.
2. Tên Tòa án ra thông báo.
3. Số và ngày, tháng, năm của quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú.
4. Tên, địa chỉ của người yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo.
5. Họ, tên và ngày, tháng, năm sinh hoặc tuổi của người cần tìm kiếm và địa chỉ cư trú của người đó trước khi biệt tích.
6. Địa chỉ liên hệ của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nếu người cần tìm kiếm biết được thông báo hoặc người khác có được tin tức về người cần tìm kiếm.

Section 1381. Original section/article: 385. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công bố thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú 1. Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú, thông báo này phải được đăng trên một trong các báo hàng ngày của trung ương trong ba số liên tiếp, Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án, Ủy ban nhân dân cấp tỉnh (nếu có) và phát sóng trên Đài phát thanh hoặc Đài truyền hình của trung ương ba lần trong 03 ngày liên tiếp.
2. Chi phí cho việc đăng, phát thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú do người yêu cầu chịu.

Section 1382. Original section/article: 386. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực của quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú Quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú quy định tại

Section 1383. Original section/article: 383. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này đương nhiên hết hiệu lực trong trường hợp người cần tìm kiếm trở về.
Chương XXVI THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU TUYÊN BỐ MỘT NGƯỜI MẤT TÍCH

Section 1384. Original section/article: 387. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất tích 1. Người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố một người mất tích theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất tích đã biệt tích 02 năm liền trở lên mà không có tin tức xác thực về việc người đó còn sống hoặc đã chết và chứng minh cho việc người yêu cầu đã áp dụng đầy đủ các biện pháp thông báo tìm kiếm; trường hợp trước đó đã có quyết định của Tòa án thông báo tìm kiếm người vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú thì phải có bản sao quyết định đó.

Section 1385. Original section/article: 388. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất tích 1. Trong thời hạn 20 ngày, kể từ ngày thụ lý đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất tích, Tòa án ra quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất tích.
2. Nội dung thông báo và việc công bố thông báo được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1386. Original section/article: 385. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Thời hạn thông báo tìm kiếm người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất tích là 04 tháng, kể từ ngày đăng, phát thông báo lần đầu tiên.
3. Trong thời hạn thông báo, nếu người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố mất tích trở về và yêu cầu Tòa án đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người mất tích.
4. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày kết thúc thời hạn thông báo quy định tại khoản 2 Điều này thì Tòa án phải mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1387. Original section/article: 389. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích; trường hợp có yêu cầu Tòa án áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người bị tuyên bố mất tích đó và được chấp nhận thì trong quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích, Tòa án còn phải quyết định áp dụng biện pháp quản lý tài sản của người đó theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1388. Original section/article: 390. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích 1. Người bị Tòa án tuyên bố mất tích trở về hoặc người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích, trong đó phải quyết định về hậu quả pháp lý của việc hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người mất tích theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
Chương XXVII THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU TUYÊN BỐ MỘT NGƯỜI LÀ ĐÃ CHẾT

Section 1389. Original section/article: 391. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu tuyên bố một người là đã chết 1. Người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố một người là đã chết theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố là đã chết thuộc trường hợp theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1390. Original section/article: 392. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người là đã chết 1. Trong thời hạn 20 ngày, kể từ ngày thụ lý đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố một người là đã chết, Tòa án ra quyết định thông báo tìm kiếm thông tin về người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố là đã chết.
2. Nội dung thông báo, việc công bố thông báo và thời hạn thông báo được thực hiện theo quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1391. Original section/article: 388. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Trong thời hạn thông báo, nếu người yêu cầu rút đơn yêu cầu hoặc người bị yêu cầu tuyên bố là đã chết trở về và thông báo cho Tòa án biết thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu.
4. Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày hết thời hạn thông báo thì Tòa án phải mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1392. Original section/article: 393. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết 
Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết; trong quyết định này, Tòa án phải xác định ngày chết của người đó và hậu quả pháp lý của việc tuyên bố một người là đã chết theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.

Section 1393. Original section/article: 394. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết 1. Khi một người bị tuyên bố là đã chết trở về hoặc có tin tức xác thực là người đó còn sống thì người đó hoặc người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh người bị tuyên bố là đã chết trở về hoặc chứng minh xác thực là người đó còn sống.

Section 1394. Original section/article: 395. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết; trong quyết định này, Tòa án phải quyết định về hậu quả pháp lý của việc hủy bỏ quyết định tuyên bố một người là đã chết theo quy định của Bộ luật dân sự.
Chương XXVIII THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU CÔNG NHẬN THUẬN TÌNH LY HÔN, THỎA 
THUẬN NUÔI CON, CHIA TÀI SẢN KHI LY HÔN

Section 1395. Original section/article: 396. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn 1. Vợ, chồng yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn phải có đơn yêu cầu. Đơn phải có các nội dung quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1396. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Vợ, chồng cùng yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn phải ký tên hoặc điểm chỉ vào đơn yêu cầu. Trong trường hợp này vợ, chồng cùng được xác định là người yêu cầu.
3. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ chứng minh thỏa thuận về thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1397. Original section/article: 397. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hòa giải và công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn 1. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, trước khi tiến hành hòa giải để vợ chồng đoàn tụ, khi xét thấy cần thiết, Thẩm phán có thể tham khảo ý kiến của cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về gia đình, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về trẻ em về hoàn cảnh gia đình, nguyên nhân phát sinh mâu thuẫn và nguyện vọng của vợ, chồng, con có liên quan đến vụ án.
2. Thẩm phán phải tiến hành hòa giải để vợ chồng đoàn tụ; giải thích về quyền và nghĩa vụ giữa vợ và chồng, giữa cha, mẹ và con, giữa các thành viên khác trong gia đình, về trách nhiệm cấp dưỡng và các vấn đề khác liên quan đến hôn nhân và gia đình.
3. Trường hợp sau khi hòa giải, vợ, chồng đoàn tụ thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết yêu cầu của họ.
4. Trường hợp hòa giải đoàn tụ không thành thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định công nhận thuận tình ly hôn và sự thỏa thuận của các đương sự theo quy định tại

Section 1398. Original section/article: 212. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này khi có đầy đủ các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Hai bên thực sự tự nguyện ly hôn;
b) Hai bên đã thỏa thuận được với nhau về việc chia hoặc không chia tài sản chung, việc trông nom, nuôi dưỡng, chăm sóc, giáo dục con;
c) Sự thỏa thuận phải bảo đảm quyền lợi chính đáng của vợ, con.
5. Trường hợp hòa giải đoàn tụ không thành và các đương sự không thỏa thuận được về việc chia tài sản, việc trông nom, nuôi dưỡng, chăm sóc, giáo dục con thì Tòa án đình chỉ giải quyết việc dân sự về công nhận thuận tình ly hôn, thỏa thuận nuôi con, chia tài sản khi ly hôn và thụ lý vụ án để giải quyết. Tòa án không phải thông báo về việc thụ lý vụ án, không phải phân công lại Thẩm phán giải quyết vụ án. Việc giải quyết vụ án được thực hiện theo thủ tục chung do Bộ luật này quy định.
Chương XXIX THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU TUYÊN BỐ VĂN BẢN CÔNG CHỨNG VÔ HIỆU

Section 1399. Original section/article: 398. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu 1. Công chứng viên đã thực hiện việc công chứng, người yêu cầu công chứng, người làm chứng, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu khi có căn cứ cho rằng việc công chứng có vi phạm pháp luật theo quy định của pháp luật về công chứng.
2. Đơn yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu phải có các nội dung quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1400. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh cho yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.

Section 1401. Original section/article: 399. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu 1. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu là 01 tháng, kể từ ngày Tòa án thụ lý đơn yêu cầu; hết thời hạn này, Tòa án phải ra quyết định mở phiên họp để xét đơn yêu cầu.
2. Sau khi thụ lý đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu, Tòa án có thẩm quyền phải thông báo ngay cho tổ chức hành nghề công chứng, Công chứng viên đã thực hiện việc công chứng, người yêu cầu công chứng, người có quyền, lợi ích liên quan, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
3. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, nếu người yêu cầu rút đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu.
4. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp, Tòa án phải mở phiên họp để xét đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1402. Original section/article: 400. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu 1. Tòa án có thể chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu.
2. Trường hợp chấp nhận đơn yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu. Trong quyết định này, Tòa án phải quyết định về hậu quả pháp lý của việc tuyên bố văn bản công chứng vô hiệu theo quy định của pháp luật.
Chương XXX THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT YÊU CẦU TUYÊN BỐ HỢP ĐỒNG LAO ĐỘNG VÔ HIỆU; 
THỎA ƯỚC LAO ĐỘNG TẬP THỂ VÔ HIỆU

Section 1403. Original section/article: 401. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu 1. Người lao động, người sử dụng lao động, tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động, cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án có thẩm quyền tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu khi có căn cứ theo quy định của Bộ luật lao động.
2. Đơn yêu cầu của người lao động, người sử dụng lao động, tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động, văn bản yêu cầu của cơ quan nhà nước có thẩm quyền phải có các nội dung quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1404. Original section/article: 402. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xem xét yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu 1. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu là 10 ngày, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án thụ lý đơn yêu cầu. Hết thời hạn này, Tòa án phải ra quyết định mở phiên họp để xét đơn yêu cầu.
2. Sau khi thụ lý đơn yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu, Tòa án có trách nhiệm gửi thông báo thụ lý cho người có đơn yêu cầu, người sử dụng lao động, tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
3. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn hoặc văn bản yêu cầu, nếu người yêu cầu rút yêu cầu thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn, văn bản yêu cầu.
4. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp, Tòa án phải mở phiên họp để xét yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu.
Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp, Tòa án phải mở phiên họp để xét yêu cầu tuyên bố thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu.
5. Khi xét đơn yêu cầu, Thẩm phán có thể chấp nhận hoặc không chấp nhận yêu cầu tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu.
Trường hợp chấp nhận yêu cầu thì Thẩm phán ra quyết định tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu. Trong quyết định này, Tòa án phải giải quyết hậu quả pháp lý của việc tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu.
6. Quyết định tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu, thỏa ước lao động tập thể vô hiệu phải gửi đến người có đơn hoặc văn bản yêu cầu, người sử dụng lao động, tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động và cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về lao động nơi doanh nghiệp đóng trụ sở chính, cơ quan quản lý nhà nước về lao động cùng cấp trong trường hợp có liên quan đến doanh nghiệp không có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam.
Chương XXXI THỦ TỤC XÉT TÍNH HỢP PHÁP CỦA CUỘC ĐÌNH CÔNG

Section 1405. Original section/article: 403. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu Tòa án xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 
1. Trong quá trình đình công hoặc trong thời hạn 03 tháng, kể từ ngày chấm dứt đình công, người sử dụng lao động, tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
2. Người yêu cầu Tòa án xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải làm đơn yêu cầu gửi Tòa án. Đơn yêu cầu phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Những nội dung quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1406. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Tên, địa chỉ của tổ chức lãnh đạo cuộc đình công;
c) Tên, địa chỉ của người sử dụng lao động nơi tập thể lao động đình công.
3. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi bản sao quyết định đình công, quyết định hoặc biên bản hòa giải của cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ tranh chấp lao động tập thể, tài liệu, chứng cứ có liên quan đến việc xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.

Section 1407. Original section/article: 404. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục gửi đơn yêu cầu Tòa án xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công Thủ tục gửi đơn, nhận đơn, nghĩa vụ cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ đối với việc xét và quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công tại Tòa án được thực hiện theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 1408. Original section/article: 405. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh nơi xảy ra đình công có thẩm quyền xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
2. Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao có thẩm quyền giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị đối với quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ.

Section 1409. Original section/article: 406. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thành phần Hội đồng xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công bằng Hội đồng gồm ba Thẩm phán.
2. Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị đối với quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công bằng Hội đồng gồm ba Thẩm phán.

Section 1410. Original section/article: 407. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những người tham gia phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Hội đồng xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công do một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa; Thư ký Tòa án ghi biên bản phiên họp.
2. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
3. Đại diện tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động và người sử dụng lao động.
4. Đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức theo yêu cầu của Tòa án.

Section 1411. Original section/article: 408. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hoãn phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công được hoãn theo quy định tại

Section 1412. Original section/article: 233. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này về hoãn phiên tòa.
2. Thời hạn hoãn phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công không quá 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày có quyết định hoãn phiên họp.

Section 1413. Original section/article: 409. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đình chỉ việc xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 
Tòa án đình chỉ việc xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công trong các trường hợp sau đây:
1. Người yêu cầu rút đơn yêu cầu;
2. Các bên đã thỏa thuận được với nhau về giải quyết cuộc đình công và có đơn yêu cầu Tòa án không giải quyết;
3. Người yêu cầu đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt, trừ trường hợp do sự kiện bất khả kháng, trở ngại khách quan.

Section 1414. Original section/article: 410. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục giải quyết đơn yêu cầu xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Ngay sau khi nhận đơn yêu cầu, Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh quyết định thành lập Hội đồng xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công và phân công một Thẩm phán chủ trì việc giải quyết đơn yêu cầu.
2. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận đơn yêu cầu, Thẩm phán được phân công chủ trì việc giải quyết đơn yêu cầu phải ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công. Quyết định mở phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải được gửi ngay cho tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động, người sử dụng lao động, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và cơ quan, tổ chức liên quan.
3. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công, Hội đồng xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải mở phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.

Section 1415. Original section/article: 411. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình tự phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công công bố quyết định mở phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công và tóm tắt nội dung đơn yêu cầu.
2. Đại diện tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động và đại diện của người sử dụng lao động trình bày ý kiến của mình.
3. Thẩm phán chủ trì phiên họp xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công có thể yêu cầu đại diện cơ quan, tổ chức tham gia phiên họp trình bày ý kiến.
4. Kiểm sát viên phát biểu ý kiến của Viện kiểm sát về việc xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
Ngay sau khi kết thúc phiên họp, Kiểm sát viên phải gửi văn bản phát biểu ý kiến cho Tòa án để lưu vào hồ sơ việc dân sự.
5. Hội đồng xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công thảo luận và quyết định theo đa số.

Section 1416. Original section/article: 412. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Quyết định của Tòa án về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải nêu rõ lý do và căn cứ để kết luận tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
Quyết định của Tòa án về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải được công bố công khai tại phiên họp và gửi ngay cho tổ chức đại diện tập thể lao động và người sử dụng lao động, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp. Tập thể lao động, người sử dụng lao động có trách nhiệm thi hành quyết định của Tòa án nhưng có quyền kháng cáo; Viện kiểm sát có quyền kháng nghị quyết định đó.
2. Sau khi quyết định của Tòa án về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công được công bố, nếu cuộc đình công là bất hợp pháp thì người lao động đang tham gia đình công phải ngừng ngay đình công và trở lại làm việc.

Section 1417. Original section/article: 413. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trình tự, thủ tục giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công 1. Ngay sau khi nhận đơn kháng cáo, quyết định kháng nghị đối với quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công, Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao phải có văn bản yêu cầu Tòa án đã xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công chuyển hồ sơ vụ việc để xem xét, giải quyết.
2. Trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản yêu cầu, Tòa án đã ra quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải chuyển hồ sơ vụ việc cho Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao để xem xét, giải quyết.
3. Trong thời hạn 02 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ vụ việc, Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao quyết định thành lập Hội đồng phúc thẩm xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công và phân công một Thẩm phán chủ trì việc nghiên cứu hồ sơ.
Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao nhận được hồ sơ vụ việc, Hội đồng phúc thẩm phải tiến hành xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị đối với quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công.
Quyết định của Hội đồng phúc thẩm xét tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao là quyết định cuối cùng.
Chương XXXII THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT CÁC VIỆC DÂN SỰ LIÊN QUAN ĐẾN HOẠT ĐỘNG TRỌNG 
TÀI THƯƠNG MẠI VIỆT NAM

Section 1418. Original section/article: 414. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những việc dân sự liên quan đến hoạt động Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án 1. Chỉ định, thay đổi Trọng tài viên.
2. Áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.
3. Hủy phán quyết trọng tài.
4. Giải quyết khiếu nại đối với quyết định của Hội đồng trọng tài về thỏa thuận trọng tài vô hiệu, thỏa thuận trọng tài không thể thực hiện được, thẩm quyền của Hội đồng trọng tài.
5. Thu thập chứng cứ.
6. Triệu tập người làm chứng.
7. Đăng ký phán quyết trọng tài.
8. Các việc dân sự khác mà pháp luật về Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam có quy định.

Section 1419. Original section/article: 415. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục giải quyết Thủ tục giải quyết các việc dân sự liên quan đến hoạt động của Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về Trọng tài thương mại Việt Nam.
Chương XXXIII 
THỦ TỤC CÔNG NHẬN KẾT QUẢ HÒA GIẢI THÀNH NGOÀI TÒA ÁN

Section 1420. Original section/article: 416. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án Kết quả hòa giải vụ việc ngoài Tòa án được Tòa án xem xét ra quyết định công nhận là kết quả hòa giải thành vụ việc xảy ra giữa cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân do cơ quan, tổ chức, người có thẩm quyền có nhiệm vụ hòa giải đã hòa giải thành theo quy định của pháp luật về hòa giải.

Section 1421. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Điều kiện công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án 1. Các bên tham gia thỏa thuận hòa giải có đầy đủ năng lực hành vi dân sự.
2. Các bên tham gia thỏa thuận hòa giải là người có quyền, nghĩa vụ đối với nội dung thỏa thuận hòa giải. Trường hợp nội dung thỏa thuận hòa giải thành liên quan đến quyền, nghĩa vụ của người thứ ba thì phải được người thứ ba đồng ý.
3. Một hoặc cả hai bên có đơn yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận.
4. Nội dung thỏa thuận hòa giải thành của các bên là hoàn toàn tự nguyện, không vi phạm điều cấm của luật, không trái đạo đức xã hội, không nhằm trốn tránh nghĩa vụ với Nhà nước hoặc người thứ ba.

Section 1422. Original section/article: 418. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án 1. Người yêu cầu công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án phải gửi đơn đến Tòa án trong thời hạn 06 tháng, kể từ ngày các bên đạt được thỏa thuận hòa giải thành.
Đơn yêu cầu phải có các nội dung chủ yếu sau đây:
a) Các nội dung quy định tại các điểm a, b, c, đ, e và g khoản 2

Section 1423. Original section/article: 362. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Tên, địa chỉ của cá nhân, tổ chức đã tiến hành hòa giải;
c) Nội dung, thỏa thuận hòa giải thành yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu, người yêu cầu phải gửi văn bản về kết quả hòa giải thành theo quy định của pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1424. Original section/article: 419. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án 1. Thủ tục nhận và xử lý đơn yêu cầu công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án được thực hiện theo quy định tại các

Section 1425. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 và 365 của Bộ luật này.
2. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án thụ lý đơn yêu cầu; hết thời hạn này, Tòa án phải ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
Thời hạn mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu là 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định mở phiên họp.
3. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Thẩm phán được phân công xét đơn có quyền sau đây:
a) Yêu cầu bên tham gia hòa giải, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan có ý kiến về yêu cầu của người có đơn đề nghị Tòa án công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành; làm rõ nội dung yêu cầu hoặc bổ sung tài liệu, nếu xét thấy cần thiết;
b) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức cá nhân có thẩm quyền tiến hành hòa giải cung cấp cho Tòa án tài liệu làm cơ sở cho việc xét đơn yêu cầu của đương sự, nếu xét thấy cần thiết.
Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân được Tòa án yêu cầu có trách nhiệm trả lời Tòa án trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án.
4. Những người tham gia phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu, thủ tục tiến hành phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1426. Original section/article: 369. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Thẩm phán ra quyết định công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án khi có đủ các điều kiện quy định tại

Section 1427. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này. Quyết định của Tòa án phải có các nội dung quy định tại

Section 1428. Original section/article: 370. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
6. Thẩm phán ra quyết định không công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án đối với trường hợp không có đủ các điều kiện quy định tại

Section 1429. Original section/article: 417. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Việc không công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án không ảnh hưởng đến nội dung và giá trị pháp lý của kết quả hòa giải ngoài Tòa án.
7. Quyết định công nhận hoặc không công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án được gửi cho người tham gia thỏa thuận hòa giải, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
8. Quyết định công nhận hoặc không công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án có hiệu lực thi hành ngay, không bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm.
9. Quyết định công nhận kết quả hòa giải thành ngoài Tòa án được thi hành theo pháp luật về thi hành án dân sự.
Chương XXXIV THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VIỆC DÂN SỰ LIÊN QUAN ĐẾN VIỆC BẮT GIỮ TÀU BAY, 
TÀU BIỂN

Section 1430. Original section/article: 420. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu Tòa án bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án bắt giữ tàu bay tại cảng hàng không, sân bay để bảo đảm lợi ích của chủ nợ, chủ sở hữu, người thứ ba ở mặt đất bị thiệt hại hoặc người khác có quyền, lợi ích đối với tàu bay hoặc để thi hành án dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật về hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam.
2. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án bắt giữ tàu biển để bảo đảm giải quyết khiếu nại hàng hải, thi hành án dân sự, thực hiện tương trợ tư pháp.

Section 1431. Original section/article: 421. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền của Tòa án bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh nơi có cảng hàng không, sân bay mà tàu bay bị yêu cầu bắt giữ hạ cánh có thẩm quyền quyết định bắt giữ tàu bay.
2. Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh nơi có cảng biển, cảng thủy nội địa mà tàu biển bị yêu cầu bắt giữ đang hoạt động hàng hải có thẩm quyền quyết định bắt giữ tàu biển. Trường hợp cảng có nhiều bến cảng thuộc địa phận các tỉnh, thành phố trực thuộc trung ương khác nhau thì Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh nơi có bến cảng mà tàu biển bị yêu cầu bắt giữ đang hoạt động hàng hải có thẩm quyền quyết định bắt giữ tàu biển đó.

Section 1432. Original section/article: 422. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển Thủ tục giải quyết việc dân sự liên quan đến việc bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về bắt giữ tàu bay, tàu biển.
Phần thứ bảy THỦ TỤC CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM HOẶC KHÔNG CÔNG NHẬN BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI; CÔNG NHẬN 
VÀ CHO THI HÀNH PHÁN QUYẾT CỦA TRỌNG TÀI NƯỚC NGOÀI Chương XXXV QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG VỀ THỦ TỤC CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM HOẶC KHÔNG CÔNG NHẬN BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI; CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH PHÁN QUYẾT CỦA TRỌNG TÀI NƯỚC 
NGOÀI

Section 1433. Original section/article: 423. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài được công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài sau đây được xem xét công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam:
a) Bản án, quyết định về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động, quyết định về tài sản trong bản án, quyết định hình sự, hành chính của Tòa án nước ngoài được quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên;
b) Bản án, quyết định về dân sự, hôn nhân và gia đình, kinh doanh, thương mại, lao động; quyết định về tài sản trong bản án, quyết định hình sự, hành chính của Tòa án nước ngoài mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam chưa cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế có quy định về công nhận và cho thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài trên cơ sở nguyên tắc có đi có lại;
c) Bản án, quyết định dân sự khác của Tòa án nước ngoài được pháp luật Việt Nam quy định công nhận và cho thi hành.
2. Quyết định về nhân thân, hôn nhân và gia đình của cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài cũng được xem xét công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam như bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này.

Section 1434. Original section/article: 424. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài được công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài sau đây được xem xét công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam:
a) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế về công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài;
b) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài không thuộc trường hợp quy định tại điểm a khoản này trên cơ sở nguyên tắc có đi có lại.
2. Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này được xem xét công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam là phán quyết cuối cùng của Hội đồng trọng tài giải quyết toàn bộ nội dung vụ tranh chấp, chấm dứt tố tụng trọng tài và có hiệu lực thi hành.
3. Trọng tài nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này được xác định theo quy định của Luật trọng tài thương mại của Việt Nam.

Section 1435. Original section/article: 425. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài; công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài 1. Người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài, nếu cá nhân phải thi hành cư trú, làm việc tại Việt Nam hoặc cơ quan, tổ chức phải thi hành có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam hoặc tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài có tại Việt Nam vào thời điểm yêu cầu.
2. Người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài.
3. Đương sự, người có quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam.

Section 1436. Original section/article: 426. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm quyền kháng cáo, kháng nghị Đương sự có quyền kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp tỉnh, Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao có quyền kháng nghị quyết định của Tòa án công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài để yêu cầu Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét lại theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 1437. Original section/article: 427. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm hiệu lực quyết định của Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài; công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài 1. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam có hiệu lực pháp luật như bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án Việt Nam đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và được thi hành theo thủ tục thi hành án dân sự. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận thì không có hiệu lực pháp luật tại Việt Nam, trừ trường hợp đương nhiên được công nhận quy định tại

Section 1438. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam có hiệu lực pháp luật như quyết định của Tòa án Việt Nam đã có hiệu lực pháp luật và được thi hành theo thủ tục thi hành án dân sự.
3. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài chỉ được thi hành tại Việt Nam sau khi quyết định của Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài đó có hiệu lực pháp luật.

Section 1439. Original section/article: 428. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định của Tòa án về công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài; công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài Tòa án có trách nhiệm chuyển giao trực tiếp hoặc qua dịch vụ bưu chính hoặc thông qua Bộ Tư pháp quyết định của Tòa án cho người được thi hành, người phải thi hành bản án, quyết định dân
sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và cơ quan thi hành án dân sự theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 1440. Original section/article: 429. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo đảm quyền chuyển tiền, tài sản thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài Nhà nước Việt Nam bảo đảm việc chuyển tiền, tài sản thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài đã được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành từ Việt Nam ra nước ngoài. Việc chuyển tiền, tài sản này được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1441. Original section/article: 430. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Lệ phí, chi phí xét đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài; công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài 1. Người yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận tại Việt Nam bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài; công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài phải nộp lệ phí theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam.
2. Người yêu cầu quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này phải chịu chi phí tống đạt ra nước ngoài văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án Việt Nam liên quan đến yêu cầu của họ.

Section 1442. Original section/article: 431. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, quyết định của cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài đương nhiên được công nhận tại Việt Nam 1. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, quyết định của cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam và không có đơn yêu cầu không công nhận tại Việt Nam được quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
2. Bản án, quyết định về hôn nhân và gia đình của Tòa án nước ngoài, quyết định về hôn nhân và gia đình của cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam chưa cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam và không có đơn yêu cầu không công nhận tại Việt Nam.
Chương XXXVI THỦ TỤC XÉT ĐƠN YÊU CẦU CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM 
BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI; THỦ TỤC XÉT ĐƠN YÊU CẦU KHÔNG CÔNG NHẬN BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN 
NƯỚC NGOÀI Mục 1. THỦ TỤC XÉT ĐƠN YÊU CẦU CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI

Section 1443. Original section/article: 432. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành 1. Trong thời hạn 03 năm, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài có hiệu lực pháp luật, người được thi hành, người có quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền gửi đơn đến Bộ Tư pháp Việt Nam theo quy định của điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định cùng là thành viên hoặc Tòa án Việt Nam có thẩm quyền quy định tại Bộ luật này để yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam bản án, quyết định dân sự đó.
2. Trường hợp người làm đơn chứng minh được vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan mà không thể gửi đơn đúng thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn gửi đơn.

Section 1444. Original section/article: 433. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành 1. Đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người được thi hành, người đại diện hợp pháp của người đó; nếu người được thi hành án là cơ quan, tổ chức thì phải ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
b) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người phải thi hành; nếu người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức thì ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó; trường hợp người phải thi hành là cá nhân không có nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc tại Việt Nam, người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức không có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam thì trong đơn yêu cầu phải ghi rõ địa chỉ nơi có tài sản và các loại tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam;
c) Yêu cầu của người được thi hành; trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài đã được thi hành một phần thì người được thi hành phải ghi rõ phần đã được thi hành và phần còn lại có yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tiếp tại Việt Nam.
2. Đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1445. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giấy tờ, tài liệu gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu 1. Gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu là giấy tờ, tài liệu được quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định cùng là thành viên. Trường hợp Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định chưa cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế có quy định về vấn đề này thì kèm theo đơn yêu cầu phải có giấy tờ, tài liệu sau đây:
a) Bản chính hoặc bản sao có chứng thực bản án, quyết định do Tòa án nước ngoài cấp;
b) Văn bản của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài xác nhận bản án, quyết định đó có hiệu lực pháp luật, chưa hết thời hiệu thi hành và cần được thi hành tại Việt Nam, trừ trường hợp trong bản án, quyết định đó đã thể hiện rõ những nội dung này;
c) Văn bản của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài xác nhận kết quả tống đạt hợp lệ bản án, quyết định đó cho người phải thi hành;
d) Văn bản của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài xác nhận người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của người đó đã được triệu tập hợp lệ trong trường hợp Tòa án nước ngoài ra bản án vắng mặt họ.
2. Giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1446. Original section/article: 435. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án Trường hợp Bộ Tư pháp nhận được đơn yêu cầu và giấy tờ, tài liệu quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1447. Original section/article: 434. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ, Bộ Tư
pháp phải chuyển cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền theo quy định tại

Section 1448. Original section/article: 436. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thụ lý hồ sơ Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ do Bộ Tư pháp chuyển đến hoặc kể từ ngày nhận được đơn yêu cầu và giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo do người có yêu cầu gửi đến, Tòa án căn cứ vào các

Section 1449. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 và 365 của Bộ luật này để xem xét, thụ lý hồ sơ và thông báo cho người có đơn yêu cầu, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ tại Việt Nam, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và Bộ Tư pháp.

Section 1450. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu 1. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án có quyền yêu cầu người được thi hành giải thích những điểm chưa rõ trong đơn; yêu cầu Tòa án nước ngoài đã ra bản án, quyết định giải thích những điểm chưa rõ trong hồ sơ.
2. Văn bản yêu cầu giải thích của Tòa án được gửi cho người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ tại Việt Nam, Tòa án nước ngoài theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính.
Trường hợp Tòa án Việt Nam yêu cầu Tòa án nước ngoài giải thích thì văn bản yêu cầu được dịch ra ngôn ngữ quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên. Trường hợp giữa Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và nước ngoài chưa có điều ước quốc tế thì hồ sơ phải kèm theo bản dịch ra ngôn ngữ của nước được yêu cầu tương trợ tư pháp hoặc dịch ra một ngôn ngữ khác mà nước được yêu cầu chấp nhận. Người yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài phải chịu chi phí dịch và chi phí dịch vụ bưu chính gửi văn bản yêu cầu giải thích của Tòa án Việt Nam cho Tòa án nước ngoài.
3. Thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu là 04 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý. Trong thời hạn này, tuỳ từng trường hợp mà Tòa án ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Tạm đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu;
b) Đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu;
c) Mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
Trường hợp Tòa án yêu cầu giải thích theo quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu được kéo dài nhưng không quá 02 tháng. Nếu hết thời hạn này mà Tòa án không nhận được văn bản giải thích của đương sự hoặc của Tòa án nước ngoài thì Tòa án căn cứ vào tài liệu có trong hồ sơ để giải quyết yêu cầu của đương sự.
Tòa án phải mở phiên họp trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
Tòa án chuyển hồ sơ cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp nghiên cứu trong thời hạn 15 ngày trước ngày mở phiên họp; hết thời hạn này, Viện kiểm sát phải gửi trả lại hồ sơ cho Tòa án để mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
4. Tòa án ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân chết hoặc người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã sáp nhập, hợp nhất, chia, tách, giải thể mà chưa có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân kế thừa quyền và nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó;
b) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân bị mất năng lực hành vi dân sự mà chưa xác định được người đại diện theo pháp luật;
c) Chấm dứt đại diện hợp pháp của người phải thi hành mà chưa có người thay thế;
d) Việc thi hành bản án, quyết định đã bị tạm đình chỉ tại nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định;
đ) Bản án, quyết định đang được xem xét lại hoặc đang chờ xem xét lại theo thủ tục tố tụng tại nước nơi Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định đó.
5. Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Người được thi hành rút đơn yêu cầu hoặc người phải thi hành đã tự nguyện thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài;
b) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân chết mà quyền, nghĩa vụ của người đó không được thừa kế;
c) Người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã bị giải thể, phá sản mà quyền, nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức đó đã được giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam;
d) Người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã bị giải thể, phá sản mà không có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nào kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
đ) Đã có quyết định của Tòa án mở thủ tục phá sản đối với người phải thi hành;
e) Tòa án không xác định được địa chỉ của người phải thi hành và địa điểm nơi có tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành;
g) Thẩm quyền giải quyết yêu cầu thuộc Tòa án khác và hồ sơ đã được chuyển cho Tòa án đó giải quyết;
h) Tòa án không xác định được địa điểm nơi có tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành tại Việt Nam trong trường hợp cơ quan, tổ chức phải thi hành không có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam, cá nhân phải thi hành không cư trú, làm việc tại Việt Nam.

Section 1451. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu 1. Việc xét đơn yêu cầu được tiến hành tại phiên họp do Hội đồng xét đơn yêu cầu gồm ba Thẩm phán thực hiện, trong đó một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa theo sự phân công của Chánh án Tòa án.
2. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp tham gia phiên họp; trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
3. Phiên họp được tiến hành với sự có mặt của người được thi hành, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ; nếu một trong những người này vắng mặt lần thứ nhất thì phải hoãn phiên họp.
Việc xét đơn yêu cầu vẫn được tiến hành nếu người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có đơn yêu cầu Tòa án xét đơn vắng mặt hoặc người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt.
Hội đồng ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn nếu người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt hoặc khi có một trong các căn cứ quy định tại khoản 5

Section 1452. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Khi xem xét đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành, Hội đồng không được xét xử lại vụ án đã được Tòa án nước ngoài ra bản án, quyết định. Tòa án chỉ được kiểm tra, đối chiếu bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo đơn yêu cầu với các quy định tại Chương XXXV và Chương XXXVI của Bộ luật này, các quy định khác có liên quan của pháp luật Việt Nam và điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên để làm cơ sở cho việc ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định đó.
5. Sau khi xem xét đơn yêu cầu, các giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo, nghe ý kiến của người được triệu tập, của Kiểm sát viên, Hội đồng thảo luận và quyết định theo đa số.
Hội đồng có quyền ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam hoặc quyết định không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài.
6. Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm có quyền quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại Chương VIII của Bộ luật này.

Section 1453. Original section/article: 439. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không được công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không đáp ứng được một trong các điều kiện để được công nhận quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
2. Bản án, quyết định dân sự chưa có hiệu lực pháp luật theo quy định của pháp luật của nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định đó.
3. Người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của người đó đã vắng mặt tại phiên tòa của Tòa án nước ngoài do không được triệu tập hợp lệ hoặc văn bản của Tòa án nước ngoài không được tống đạt cho họ trong một thời hạn hợp lý theo quy định của pháp luật của nước có Tòa án nước ngoài đó để họ thực hiện quyền tự bảo vệ.
4. Tòa án nước đã ra bản án, quyết định không có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ việc dân sự đó theo quy định tại

Section 1454. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
5. Vụ việc dân sự này đã có bản án, quyết định dân sự đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án Việt Nam hoặc trước khi cơ quan xét xử của nước ngoài thụ lý vụ việc, Tòa án Việt Nam đã thụ lý và đang giải quyết vụ việc hoặc đã có bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước thứ ba đã được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành.
6. Đã hết thời hiệu thi hành án theo pháp luật của nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định dân sự đó hoặc theo pháp luật thi hành án dân sự của Việt Nam.
7. Việc thi hành bản án, quyết định đã bị hủy bỏ hoặc đình chỉ thi hành tại nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định đó.
8. Việc công nhận và cho thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam.

Section 1455. Original section/article: 440. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tòa án nước ngoài có thẩm quyền giải quyết tranh chấp, yêu cầu Tòa án nước ngoài đã ra bản án, quyết định mà bản án, quyết định đó đang được xem xét để công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ việc dân sự đó trong những trường hợp sau đây:
1. Vụ việc dân sự không thuộc thẩm quyền riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam quy định tại

Section 1456. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Vụ việc dân sự quy định tại

Section 1457. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này nhưng có một trong các điều kiện sau đây:
a) Bị đơn tham gia tranh tụng mà không có ý kiến phản đối thẩm quyền của Tòa án nước ngoài đó;
b) Vụ việc dân sự này chưa có bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước thứ ba đã được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành;
c) Vụ việc dân sự này đã được Tòa án nước ngoài thụ lý trước khi Tòa án Việt Nam thụ lý.

Section 1458. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định của Tòa án 1. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định quy định tại khoản 5

Section 1459. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, Bộ Tư pháp và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
2. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ, quyết định đình chỉ việc giải quyết đơn quy định tại khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 1460. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, Bộ Tư pháp và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
3. Ngay sau khi ra quyết định áp dụng, thay đổi, hủy bỏ biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời quy định tại khoản 6

Section 1461. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền, Bộ Tư pháp và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
4. Việc gửi quyết định của Tòa án cho đương sự ở nước ngoài được thực hiện theo các phương thức quy định tại

Section 1462. Original section/article: 442. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Trong thời hạn 07 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ, quyết định đình chỉ xét đơn yêu cầu và 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài, đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền kháng cáo quyết định đó; trường hợp đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của họ không có mặt tại phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu thì thời hạn kháng cáo được tính từ ngày họ nhận được quyết định đó. Đơn kháng cáo phải nêu rõ lý do và yêu cầu kháng cáo.
Trong trường hợp có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan làm cho đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của họ không thể kháng cáo trong thời hạn nêu trên thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn kháng cáo.
2. Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp tỉnh hoặc Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao có quyền kháng nghị quyết định của Tòa án quy định tại khoản 4 và khoản 5

Section 1463. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Thời hạn kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp tỉnh là 07 ngày, của Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao là 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Viện kiểm sát nhận được quyết định.

Section 1464. Original section/article: 443. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị 
1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ; trường hợp cần phải yêu cầu giải thích theo quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2

Section 1465. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn này được kéo dài, nhưng không quá 02 tháng.
2. Thành phần Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị gồm ba Thẩm phán, trong đó một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa theo sự phân công của Chánh Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao.
Phiên họp xét lại quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị được tiến hành như phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu quy định tại

Section 1466. Original section/article: 438. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị có các quyền sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
b) Sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
c) Tạm đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị;
d) Đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị;
đ) Hủy quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để giải quyết lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm;
e) Hủy quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ quy định tại khoản 5

Section 1467. Original section/article: 437. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày ra quyết định và có thể bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm theo quy định của Bộ luật này.
Mục 2. THỦ TỤC XÉT ĐƠN YÊU CẦU KHÔNG CÔNG NHẬN BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI

Section 1468. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam 1. Trong thời hạn 03 năm, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài có hiệu lực pháp luật, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài.
2. Trường hợp người yêu cầu chứng minh được vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan mà không thể yêu cầu đúng thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn gửi đơn.

Section 1469. Original section/article: 445. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam 1. Người yêu cầu quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1470. Original section/article: 444. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này phải làm đơn yêu cầu. Đơn yêu cầu phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người phải thi hành; nếu người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức thì ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó; trường hợp người phải thi hành là cá nhân không có nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc tại Việt Nam, người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức không có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam thì trong đơn yêu cầu phải ghi rõ địa chỉ nơi có tài sản và các loại tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam;
b) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người được thi hành, người đại diện hợp pháp của người đó; nếu người được thi hành án là cơ quan, tổ chức thì phải ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
c) Yêu cầu của người phải thi hành; trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài đã được thi hành một phần thì phải ghi rõ phần đã được thi hành và phần còn lại có yêu cầu không công nhận tại Việt Nam.
2. Đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1471. Original section/article: 446. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giấy tờ, tài liệu gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu; thủ tục xét đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài tại Việt Nam 1. Gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu là giấy tờ, tài liệu quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên. Trường hợp Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và nước có Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định chưa cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế có quy định về vấn đề này thì kèm theo đơn yêu cầu phải có bản chính hoặc bản sao có chứng thực bản án, quyết định do Tòa án nước ngoài cấp và giấy tờ, tài liệu chứng minh cho yêu cầu không công nhận.
2. Giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.
3. Thủ tục xét đơn yêu cầu, việc gửi quyết định của Tòa án, việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị và xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị được thực hiện theo quy định tại các điều tương ứng tại Mục 1 Chương này.
Mục 3. THỦ TỤC YÊU CẦU KHÔNG CÔNG NHẬN BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN NƯỚC NGOÀI KHÔNG CÓ YÊU CẦU THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM

Section 1472. Original section/article: 447. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Trong thời hạn 06 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được bản án, quyết định dân sự đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án nước ngoài mà không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam, đương sự, người có quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền gửi đơn đến Bộ Tư pháp Việt Nam theo quy định của điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên hoặc Tòa án có thẩm quyền của Việt Nam theo quy định của Bộ luật này trong trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên không quy định hoặc không có điều ước quốc tế liên quan để yêu cầu Tòa án không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự đó.
2. Trường hợp người làm đơn chứng minh được vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan mà không thể gửi đơn đúng thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1
Điều này thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn gửi đơn.

Section 1473. Original section/article: 448. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người làm đơn; nếu là cơ quan, tổ chức thì ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
b) Yêu cầu của người làm đơn.
2. Kèm theo đơn yêu cầu phải có bản chính hoặc bản sao có chứng thực bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài và giấy tờ, tài liệu cần thiết để chứng minh yêu cầu không công nhận của mình là có căn cứ và hợp pháp.
3. Đơn yêu cầu và giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1474. Original section/article: 449. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục thụ lý, giải quyết đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam 1. Việc thụ lý đơn, chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu và phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam được thực hiện theo quy định tại các

Section 1475. Original section/article: 436. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 437 và 438 của Bộ luật này.
2. Hội đồng xét đơn yêu cầu có quyền ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Không công nhận bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài;
b) Bác đơn yêu cầu không công nhận.
3. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài không có yêu cầu thi hành tại Việt Nam không được công nhận trong các trường hợp quy định tại

Section 1476. Original section/article: 450. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định của Tòa án và việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị Việc gửi quyết định của Tòa án; việc kháng cáo, kháng nghị và xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị được thực hiện theo quy định tại các

Section 1477. Original section/article: 441. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 442 và 443 của Bộ luật này.
Chương XXXVII THỦ TỤC XÉT ĐƠN YÊU CẦU CÔNG NHẬN VÀ CHO THI HÀNH TẠI VIỆT NAM 
PHÁN QUYẾT CỦA TRỌNG TÀI NƯỚC NGOÀI

Section 1478. Original section/article: 451. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn gửi đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành 1. Trong thời hạn 03 năm, kể từ ngày phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài có hiệu lực pháp luật, người được thi hành, người có quyền, lợi ích hợp pháp liên quan hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền gửi đơn đến Bộ Tư pháp Việt Nam theo quy định của điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên hoặc Tòa án có thẩm quyền của Việt Nam theo quy định của Bộ luật này trong trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên không quy định hoặc không có điều ước quốc tế liên quan để yêu cầu Tòa án công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết đó.
2. Trường hợp người làm đơn chứng minh được vì sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan mà không thể gửi đơn đúng thời hạn quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn gửi đơn.

Section 1479. Original section/article: 452. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài 1. Đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài phải có các nội dung chính sau đây:
a) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người được thi hành, người đại diện hợp pháp tại Việt Nam của người đó; nếu người được thi hành án là cơ quan, tổ chức thì phải ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
b) Họ, tên, địa chỉ nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc của người phải thi hành; nếu người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức thì ghi đầy đủ tên và địa chỉ trụ sở chính của cơ quan, tổ chức đó; trường hợp người phải thi hành là cá nhân không có nơi cư trú hoặc nơi làm việc tại Việt Nam, người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức không có trụ sở chính tại Việt Nam thì trong đơn yêu cầu phải ghi rõ địa chỉ nơi có tài sản và các loại tài sản liên quan đến việc thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài tại Việt Nam;
c) Yêu cầu của người được thi hành.
2. Đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1480. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giấy tờ, tài liệu gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu 1. Gửi kèm theo đơn yêu cầu là giấy tờ, tài liệu quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên; trường hợp không có điều ước quốc tế hoặc điều ước quốc tế không quy định thì kèm theo đơn yêu cầu phải có giấy tờ, tài liệu sau đây:
a) Bản chính hoặc bản sao có chứng thực phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài;
b) Bản chính hoặc bản sao có chứng thực thỏa thuận trọng tài giữa các bên.
2. Giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo đơn yêu cầu bằng tiếng nước ngoài thì phải được gửi kèm theo bản dịch ra tiếng Việt, được công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp.

Section 1481. Original section/article: 454. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án 1. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được đơn yêu cầu và giấy tờ, tài liệu quy định tại

Section 1482. Original section/article: 453. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Bộ Tư pháp phải chuyển cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền.
2. Trường hợp Bộ Tư pháp đã chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án mà sau đó lại nhận được thông báo của cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài cho biết đang xem xét hoặc đã hủy bỏ, đình chỉ thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài thì Bộ Tư pháp phải thông báo ngay bằng văn bản cho Tòa án biết.

Section 1483. Original section/article: 455. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thụ lý hồ sơ Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ do Bộ Tư pháp chuyển đến hoặc nhận được đơn và giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo do người có đơn yêu cầu gửi đến, Tòa án có thẩm quyền căn cứ vào các

Section 1484. Original section/article: 363. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 364 và 365 của Bộ luật này để xem xét, thụ lý và thông báo bằng văn bản cho người được thi hành, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ tại Việt Nam, Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và Bộ Tư pháp.

Section 1485. Original section/article: 456. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án khác, giải quyết tranh chấp về thẩm quyền Trường hợp sau khi thụ lý mà Tòa án xét thấy việc giải quyết yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án khác của Việt Nam thì Tòa án đã thụ lý ra quyết định chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án có thẩm quyền và xóa tên yêu cầu đó trong sổ thụ lý. Quyết định này phải được gửi ngay cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp và đương sự.
Đương sự có quyền khiếu nại, Viện kiểm sát có quyền kiến nghị đối với quyết định này trong thời hạn 03 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được quyết định. Trình tự, thủ tục giải quyết khiếu nại, kiến nghị, giải quyết tranh chấp về thẩm quyền được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1486. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu 1. Trong thời hạn 02 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý, tùy từng trường hợp mà Tòa án ra một trong các quyết định sau đây:
a) Tạm đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu;
b) Đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu;
c) Mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
Trong thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu, Tòa án có quyền yêu cầu người được thi hành giải thích những điểm chưa rõ trong đơn. Trong trường hợp này, thời hạn chuẩn bị xét đơn yêu cầu được kéo dài nhưng không quá 02 tháng.
Tòa án phải mở phiên họp trong thời hạn 20 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu. Tòa án chuyển hồ sơ cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp nghiên cứu trong thời hạn 15 ngày trước ngày mở phiên họp; hết thời hạn này, Viện kiểm sát phải gửi trả lại hồ sơ cho Tòa án để mở phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu.
2. Tòa án ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài đang được cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước nơi Trọng tài ra phán quyết xem xét lại;
b) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân chết hoặc người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã sáp nhập, hợp nhất, chia, tách, giải thể mà chưa có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân kế thừa quyền và nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó;
c) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân bị mất năng lực hành vi dân sự mà chưa xác định được người đại diện theo pháp luật.
Trong thời gian tạm đình chỉ, Thẩm phán được phân công giải quyết vẫn phải có trách nhiệm về việc giải quyết đơn yêu cầu.
Sau khi có quyết định tạm đình chỉ giải quyết đơn yêu cầu theo quy định tại khoản này, Thẩm phán có trách nhiệm theo dõi, đôn đốc cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nhằm khắc phục những lý do dẫn tới việc tạm đình chỉ trong thời gian ngắn nhất để kịp thời tiếp tục giải quyết đơn yêu cầu. Khi lý do tạm đình chỉ không còn thì Thẩm phán phải ra quyết định tiếp tục giải quyết đơn yêu cầu.
3. Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc xét đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ sau đây:
a) Người được thi hành rút đơn yêu cầu hoặc người phải thi hành đã tự nguyện thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài;
b) Người phải thi hành là cá nhân chết mà quyền, nghĩa vụ của người đó không được thừa kế;
c) Người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã bị giải thể, phá sản mà quyền, nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức đó đã được giải quyết theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam;
d) Người phải thi hành là cơ quan, tổ chức đã bị giải thể, phá sản mà không có cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nào kế thừa quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng của cơ quan, tổ chức đó;
đ) Tòa án không xác định được địa điểm nơi có tài sản tại Việt Nam của người phải thi hành theo yêu cầu của người được thi hành phán quyết trọng tài.

Section 1487. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu 1. Việc xét đơn yêu cầu được tiến hành tại phiên họp do Hội đồng xét đơn yêu cầu gồm ba Thẩm phán thực hiện, trong đó một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa theo sự phân công của Chánh án Tòa án.
2. Kiểm sát viên Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp phải tham gia phiên họp; trường hợp Kiểm sát viên vắng mặt thì Tòa án vẫn tiến hành phiên họp.
3. Phiên họp được tiến hành với sự có mặt của người được thi hành, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, nếu một trong những người này vắng mặt lần thứ nhất có lý do chính đáng thì phải hoãn phiên họp.
Việc xét đơn yêu cầu vẫn được tiến hành nếu người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ yêu cầu Tòa án xét đơn vắng mặt họ hoặc người phải thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt.
Hội đồng xét đơn ra quyết định đình chỉ việc giải quyết đơn nếu người được thi hành hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt hoặc khi có một trong các căn cứ quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1488. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Khi xem xét đơn yêu cầu công nhận và cho thi hành, Hội đồng không được xét xử lại tranh chấp đã được Trọng tài nước ngoài ra phán quyết. Tòa án chỉ được kiểm tra, đối chiếu phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài, giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo đơn yêu cầu với các quy định tại Chương XXXV và Chương XXXVII của Bộ luật này, các quy định khác có liên quan của pháp luật Việt Nam và điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên để làm cơ sở cho việc ra quyết định công nhận hoặc không công nhận phán quyết đó.
5. Sau khi xem xét đơn yêu cầu, giấy tờ, tài liệu kèm theo, nghe ý kiến của người được triệu tập, của Kiểm sát viên, Hội đồng thảo luận và quyết định theo đa số.
Hội đồng có quyền ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài hoặc quyết định không công nhận phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài.

Section 1489. Original section/article: 459. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những trường hợp không công nhận 1. Tòa án không công nhận phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài khi xét thấy chứng cứ do bên phải thi hành cung cấp cho Tòa án để phản đối yêu cầu công nhận là có căn cứ, hợp pháp và phán quyết trọng tài thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Các bên ký kết thỏa thuận trọng tài không có năng lực để ký kết thỏa thuận đó theo pháp luật được áp dụng cho mỗi bên;
b) Thỏa thuận trọng tài không có giá trị pháp lý theo pháp luật của nước mà các bên đã chọn để áp dụng hoặc theo pháp luật của nước nơi phán quyết đã được tuyên, nếu các bên không chọn pháp luật áp dụng cho thỏa thuận đó;
c) Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân phải thi hành không được thông báo kịp thời và hợp thức về việc chỉ định Trọng tài viên, về thủ tục giải quyết vụ tranh chấp tại Trọng tài nước ngoài hoặc vì nguyên nhân chính đáng khác mà không thể thực hiện được quyền tố tụng của mình;
d) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài được tuyên về một vụ tranh chấp không được các bên yêu cầu giải quyết hoặc vượt quá yêu cầu của các bên ký kết thỏa thuận trọng tài. Trường hợp có thể tách được phần quyết định về vấn đề đã được yêu cầu và phần quyết định về vấn đề không được yêu cầu giải quyết tại Trọng tài nước ngoài thì phần quyết định về vấn đề được yêu cầu giải quyết có thể được công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam;
đ) Thành phần của Trọng tài nước ngoài, thủ tục giải quyết tranh chấp của Trọng tài nước ngoài không phù hợp với thỏa thuận trọng tài hoặc với pháp luật của nước nơi phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài đã được tuyên, nếu thỏa thuận trọng tài không quy định về các vấn đề đó;
e) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài chưa có hiệu lực bắt buộc đối với các bên;
g) Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài bị cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước nơi phán quyết đã được tuyên hoặc của nước có pháp luật đã được áp dụng hủy bỏ hoặc đình chỉ thi hành.
2. Phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài cũng không được công nhận, nếu Tòa án Việt Nam xét thấy:
a) Theo pháp luật Việt Nam, vụ tranh chấp không được giải quyết theo thể thức trọng tài;
b) Việc công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài trái với các nguyên tắc cơ bản của pháp luật của nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam.

Section 1490. Original section/article: 460. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Gửi quyết định của Tòa án 1. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ, quyết định đình chỉ việc giải quyết đơn quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1491. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, Bộ Tư pháp và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
2. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành hoặc không công nhận tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài quy định tại khoản 5

Section 1492. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, Tòa án phải gửi quyết định đó cho các đương sự hoặc người đại diện hợp pháp của họ, Bộ Tư pháp và Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp. Nếu đương sự ở nước ngoài không có người đại diện hợp pháp tại Việt Nam và Tòa án đã ra quyết định vắng mặt họ theo quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1493. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án gửi quyết định cho họ theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính hoặc thông qua Bộ Tư pháp theo quy định của điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
3. Việc gửi quyết định của Tòa án được thực hiện theo các phương thức quy định tại

Section 1494. Original section/article: 461. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án ra quyết định quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1495. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của họ có quyền kháng cáo quyết định đó; trường hợp đương sự không có mặt tại phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu thì thời hạn kháng cáo được tính từ ngày họ nhận được quyết định. Đơn kháng cáo phải nêu rõ lý do và yêu cầu kháng cáo.
Trường hợp có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan làm cho đương sự, người đại diện hợp pháp của họ không thể kháng cáo trong thời hạn nêu trên thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hạn kháng cáo.
2. Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp tỉnh hoặc Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao có quyền kháng nghị quyết định của Tòa án quy định tại khoản 2 và khoản 3

Section 1496. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Thời hạn kháng nghị của Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp tỉnh là 07 ngày, của Viện kiểm sát nhân dân cấp cao là 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Viện kiểm sát nhận được quyết định.

Section 1497. Original section/article: 462. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị 1. Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao xét lại quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được hồ sơ; trường hợp cần phải yêu cầu giải thích theo quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1498. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn này được kéo dài, nhưng không quá 02 tháng.
2. Thành phần Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị gồm ba Thẩm phán, trong đó có một Thẩm phán làm chủ tọa theo sự phân công của Chánh án Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao. Phiên họp xét lại quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị được tiến hành như phiên họp xét đơn yêu cầu quy định tại

Section 1499. Original section/article: 458. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị có các quyền sau đây:
a) Giữ nguyên quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
b) Sửa một phần hoặc toàn bộ quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm;
c) Tạm đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị;
d) Đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị;
đ) Hủy quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để giải quyết lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm;
e) Hủy quyết định sơ thẩm và đình chỉ giải quyết đơn yêu cầu khi có một trong các căn cứ quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1500. Original section/article: 457. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
4. Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Đương sự kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị;
b) Đương sự kháng cáo đã được triệu tập hợp lệ lần thứ hai mà vẫn vắng mặt và không có đơn yêu cầu giải quyết vắng mặt.
Trường hợp đương sự kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo hoặc Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị trước khi Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị thì Thẩm phán được phân công làm chủ tọa phiên họp ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết kháng cáo, kháng nghị. Trường hợp đương sự kháng cáo rút toàn bộ kháng cáo, Viện kiểm sát rút toàn bộ kháng nghị sau khi Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định mở phiên họp xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị thì Hội đồng xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị ra quyết định đình chỉ giải quyết xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
Trong các trường hợp này, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm có hiệu lực pháp luật từ ngày Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm ra quyết định đình chỉ xét kháng cáo, kháng nghị.
5. Hội đồng xét quyết định bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị hủy quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm và chuyển hồ sơ cho Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm để giải quyết lại theo thủ tục sơ thẩm trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Việc chứng minh của đương sự phản đối việc công nhận phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài hoặc căn cứ để Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm ra quyết định công nhận hoặc không công nhận phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài không đúng quy định tại Chương XXXV và Chương XXXVII của Bộ luật này, các quy định khác có liên quan của pháp luật Việt Nam và điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên;
b) Thành phần của Hội đồng xét đơn của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm không đúng quy định tại Chương XXXVII của Bộ luật này hoặc có vi phạm nghiêm trọng khác về thủ tục tố tụng ảnh hưởng đến quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự.
6. Quyết định của Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao có hiệu lực pháp luật kể từ ngày ra quyết định và có thể bị kháng nghị theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 1501. Original section/article: 463. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tạm đình chỉ thi hành, hủy quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài 1. Ngay sau khi nhận được thông báo bằng văn bản của cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài về việc đang xem xét yêu cầu hủy bỏ hoặc đình chỉ thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài từ đương sự hoặc Bộ Tư pháp, Tòa án đã ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết đó phải yêu cầu Thủ trưởng cơ quan thi hành án dân sự ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ thi hành phán quyết.
Ngay sau khi nhận được yêu cầu của Tòa án, Thủ trưởng cơ quan thi hành án dân sự ra quyết định tạm đình chỉ thi hành phán quyết và gửi quyết định đó cho Tòa án đã ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài, đồng thời gửi cho đương sự, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan.
Thủ trưởng cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thể áp dụng biện pháp bảo đảm cần thiết cho việc tiếp tục thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài theo quy định của pháp luật về thi hành án dân sự nếu có yêu cầu của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân được thi hành.
2. Ngay sau khi nhận được thông báo bằng văn bản của cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài hủy bỏ hoặc đình chỉ thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài, Tòa án Việt Nam đã ra quyết định công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài ra quyết định hủy bỏ quyết định đó và gửi quyết định này cho đương sự, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan, cơ quan thi hành án dân sự.
Ngay sau khi nhận được quyết định của Tòa án, Thủ trưởng cơ quan thi hành án dân sự ra quyết định đình chỉ việc thi hành phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài.
Phần thứ tám THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ CÓ YẾU TỐ NƯỚC NGOÀI 
Chương XXXVIII 
QUY ĐỊNH CHUNG VỀ THỦ TỤC GIẢI QUYẾT VỤ VIỆC DÂN SỰ CÓ YẾU TỐ NƯỚC NGOÀI

Section 1502. Original section/article: 464. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nguyên tắc áp dụng 1. Phần này quy định về thẩm quyền, thủ tục giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài; trường hợp Phần này không có quy định thì áp dụng các quy định khác có liên quan của Bộ luật này để giải quyết.
2. Vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài là vụ việc dân sự thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Có ít nhất một trong các bên tham gia là cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài;
b) Các bên tham gia đều là công dân, cơ quan, tổ chức Việt Nam nhưng việc xác lập, thay đổi, thực hiện hoặc chấm dứt quan hệ đó xảy ra tại nước ngoài;
c) Các bên tham gia đều là công dân, cơ quan, tổ chức Việt Nam nhưng đối tượng của quan hệ dân sự đó ở nước ngoài.
3. Các hoạt động tương trợ tư pháp trong tố tụng dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về tương trợ tư pháp.

Section 1503. Original section/article: 465. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng của người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài và tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam, Nhà nước nước ngoài 1. Người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam có quyền khởi kiện đến Tòa án Việt Nam để yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình khi bị xâm phạm hoặc có tranh chấp.
Chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài theo ủy quyền có quyền khởi kiện đến Tòa án Việt Nam để yêu cầu bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài ủy quyền bị xâm phạm hoặc có tranh chấp.
2. Khi tham gia tố tụng dân sự, người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam, Nhà nước nước ngoài có quyền, nghĩa vụ tố tụng như công dân, cơ quan, tổ chức Việt Nam.
3. Nhà nước Việt Nam có thể áp dụng nguyên tắc có đi có lại để hạn chế quyền tố tụng dân sự tương ứng của người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài mà Tòa án của nước đó đã hạn chế quyền tố tụng dân sự đối với công dân, cơ quan, tổ chức Việt Nam, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại nước ngoài của cơ quan, tổ chức Việt Nam.

Section 1504. Original section/article: 466. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự và năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự của người nước ngoài 1. Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự và năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự của người nước ngoài được xác định như sau:
a) Theo pháp luật của nước mà người nước ngoài có quốc tịch; trường hợp người nước ngoài là người không quốc tịch thì theo pháp luật của nước nơi người đó cư trú; nếu người không quốc tịch thường trú tại Việt Nam thì theo pháp luật Việt Nam;
b) Theo pháp luật của nước nơi người nước ngoài có quốc tịch và cư trú tại một trong các nước mà họ có quốc tịch nếu họ có nhiều quốc tịch nước ngoài.
Trường hợp người nước ngoài có nhiều quốc tịch và cư trú ở nước mà không cùng với quốc tịch của nước đó thì theo pháp luật của nước nơi người nước ngoài có thời gian mang quốc tịch dài nhất;
c) Theo pháp luật Việt Nam nếu người nước ngoài có nhiều quốc tịch và một trong quốc tịch đó là quốc tịch Việt Nam hoặc người nước ngoài có thẻ thường trú hoặc thẻ tạm trú tại Việt Nam.
2. Người nước ngoài có thể được công nhận có năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự tại Tòa án Việt Nam, nếu theo quy định của pháp luật nước ngoài thì họ không có năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự, nhưng theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam thì họ có năng lực hành vi tố tụng dân sự.

Section 1505. Original section/article: 467. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài và tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam, Nhà nước nước ngoài 1. Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài được xác định theo pháp luật của nước nơi cơ quan, tổ chức đó được thành lập.
Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự của chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài được xác định theo pháp luật Việt Nam.
2. Năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự của tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế được xác định trên cơ sở điều ước quốc tế là căn cứ để thành lập tổ chức đó, quy chế hoạt động của tổ chức quốc tế hoặc điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
Trường hợp tổ chức quốc tế tuyên bố từ bỏ quyền ưu đãi, quyền miễn trừ thì năng lực pháp luật tố tụng dân sự của tổ chức quốc tế đó được xác định theo pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1506. Original section/article: 468. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của đương sự là người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam, Nhà nước nước ngoài Đương sự là người nước ngoài, cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam của cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài, tổ chức quốc tế, cơ quan đại diện của tổ chức quốc tế tại Việt Nam, Nhà nước nước ngoài tham gia tố tụng tại Tòa án Việt Nam có quyền tự mình hoặc nhờ luật sư, người khác bảo vệ quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp cho mình theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1507. Original section/article: 469. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền chung của Tòa án Việt Nam trong giải quyết các vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài 1. Tòa án Việt Nam có thẩm quyền giải quyết các vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài trong những trường hợp sau đây:
a) Bị đơn là cá nhân cư trú, làm ăn, sinh sống lâu dài tại Việt Nam;
b) Bị đơn là cơ quan, tổ chức có trụ sở tại Việt Nam hoặc bị đơn là cơ quan, tổ chức có chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện tại Việt Nam đối với các vụ việc liên quan đến hoạt động của chi nhánh, văn phòng đại diện của cơ quan, tổ chức đó tại Việt Nam;
c) Bị đơn có tài sản trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
d) Vụ việc ly hôn mà nguyên đơn hoặc bị đơn là công dân Việt Nam hoặc các đương sự là người nước ngoài cư trú, làm ăn, sinh sống lâu dài tại Việt Nam;
đ) Vụ việc về quan hệ dân sự mà việc xác lập, thay đổi, chấm dứt quan hệ đó xảy ra ở Việt Nam, đối tượng của quan hệ đó là tài sản trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam hoặc công việc được thực hiện trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
e) Vụ việc về quan hệ dân sự mà việc xác lập, thay đổi, chấm dứt quan hệ đó xảy ra ở ngoài lãnh thổ Việt Nam nhưng có liên quan đến quyền và nghĩa vụ của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân Việt Nam hoặc có trụ sở, nơi cư trú tại Việt Nam.
2. Sau khi xác định thẩm quyền của Tòa án Việt Nam theo quy định của Chương này, Tòa án áp dụng các quy định tại Chương III của Bộ luật này để xác định thẩm quyền của Tòa án cụ thể giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài.

Section 1508. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam 1. Những vụ án dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài sau đây thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam:
a) Vụ án dân sự đó có liên quan đến quyền đối với tài sản là bất động sản có trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
b) Vụ án ly hôn giữa công dân Việt Nam với công dân nước ngoài hoặc người không quốc tịch, nếu cả hai vợ chồng cư trú, làm ăn, sinh sống lâu dài ở Việt Nam;
c) Vụ án dân sự khác mà các bên được lựa chọn Tòa án Việt Nam để giải quyết theo pháp luật Việt Nam hoặc điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên và các bên đồng ý lựa chọn Tòa án Việt Nam.
2. Những việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài sau đây thuộc thẩm quyền giải quyết riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam:
a) Các yêu cầu không có tranh chấp phát sinh từ quan hệ pháp luật dân sự quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này;
b) Yêu cầu xác định một sự kiện pháp lý xảy ra trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
c) Tuyên bố công dân Việt Nam hoặc người nước ngoài cư trú tại Việt Nam bị mất tích, đã chết nếu việc tuyên bố đó có liên quan đến việc xác lập quyền, nghĩa vụ của họ trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam, trừ trường hợp điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên có quy định khác;
d) Tuyên bố người nước ngoài cư trú tại Việt Nam bị hạn chế năng lực hành vi dân sự, mất năng lực hành vi dân sự nếu việc tuyên bố đó có liên quan đến việc xác lập quyền, nghĩa vụ của họ trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam;
đ) Công nhận tài sản có trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam là vô chủ, công nhận quyền sở hữu của người đang quản lý đối với tài sản vô chủ trên lãnh thổ Việt Nam.

Section 1509. Original section/article: 471. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Không thay đổi thẩm quyền giải quyết của Tòa án Vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài đã được một Tòa án Việt Nam thụ lý giải quyết theo quy định về thẩm quyền của Bộ luật này thì phải được Tòa án đó tiếp tục giải quyết mặc dù trong quá
trình giải quyết có sự thay đổi quốc tịch, nơi cư trú, địa chỉ của các đương sự hoặc có tình tiết mới làm cho vụ việc dân sự đó thuộc thẩm quyền của Tòa án khác của Việt Nam hoặc của Tòa án nước ngoài.

Section 1510. Original section/article: 472. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu hoặc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài trong trường hợp đã có thỏa thuận trọng tài, thỏa thuận lựa chọn Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc đã có Tòa án nước ngoài, Trọng tài hoặc cơ quan khác có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài giải quyết hoặc đương sự được hưởng quyền miễn trừ tư pháp 1. Tòa án Việt Nam phải trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu hoặc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài nếu vụ việc dân sự thuộc thẩm quyền chung của Tòa án Việt Nam nhưng thuộc một trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Các đương sự được thỏa thuận lựa chọn phương thức giải quyết tranh chấp theo quy định của pháp luật áp dụng đối với quan hệ dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài và đã lựa chọn Trọng tài hoặc Tòa án nước ngoài giải quyết vụ việc đó.
Trường hợp các bên thay đổi thỏa thuận lựa chọn Trọng tài hoặc Tòa án nước ngoài bằng thỏa thuận lựa chọn Tòa án Việt Nam hoặc thỏa thuận lựa chọn Trọng tài hoặc Tòa án nước ngoài bị vô hiệu hoặc không thể thực hiện được, hoặc Trọng tài hoặc Tòa án nước ngoài từ chối thụ lý đơn thì Tòa án Việt Nam vẫn có thẩm quyền giải quyết;
b) Vụ việc không thuộc thẩm quyền riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam quy định tại

Section 1511. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và vụ việc thuộc thẩm quyền riêng biệt của Tòa án nước ngoài có liên quan;
c) Vụ việc không thuộc thẩm quyền riêng biệt của Tòa án Việt Nam quy định tại

Section 1512. Original section/article: 470. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này và đã được Trọng tài hoặc Tòa án nước ngoài thụ lý giải quyết;
d) Vụ việc đã được giải quyết bằng bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài hoặc phán quyết của Trọng tài.
Trường hợp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài không được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận thì Tòa án Việt Nam vẫn có thẩm quyền giải quyết vụ việc đó;
đ) Bị đơn được hưởng quyền miễn trừ tư pháp.
2. Trường hợp trả lại đơn hoặc đình chỉ giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thì tiền tạm ứng án phí, lệ phí được xử lý theo quy định của Bộ luật này.

Section 1513. Original section/article: 473. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Yêu cầu cung cấp thông tin về nhân thân, xác định địa chỉ của đương sự ở nước ngoài 1. Người khởi kiện, người yêu cầu phải ghi đầy đủ họ, tên, địa chỉ, quốc tịch của đương sự ở nước ngoài trong đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu kèm theo giấy tờ, tài liệu xác thực họ, tên, địa chỉ, quốc tịch của đương sự đó.
Trường hợp không ghi đầy đủ họ, tên, địa chỉ, quốc tịch của đương sự ở nước ngoài hoặc thiếu những nội dung trên thì phải bổ sung trong thời hạn do Tòa án ấn định, hết thời hạn đó mà không cung cấp được thì Tòa án trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu.
2. Trường hợp không xác định được địa chỉ của đương sự ở nước ngoài thì người khởi kiện, người yêu cầu có thể yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam đề nghị cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài xác định địa chỉ của đương sự hoặc có thể yêu cầu cơ quan có thẩm quyền tìm kiếm người vắng
mặt tại nơi cư trú hoặc yêu cầu Tòa án Việt Nam hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài tuyên bố đương sự mất tích hoặc đã chết theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam hoặc pháp luật nước ngoài hoặc điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
Trường hợp cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài trả lời cho Tòa án Việt Nam không xác định được địa chỉ của đương sự ở nước ngoài hoặc sau 06 tháng mà không có trả lời thì Tòa án trả lại đơn khởi kiện, đơn yêu cầu.

Section 1514. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Các phương thức tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án cho đương sự ở nước ngoài 1. Tòa án thực hiện việc tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án theo một trong các phương thức sau đây:
a) Theo phương thức được quy định tại điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên;
b) Theo đường ngoại giao đối với đương sự cư trú ở nước mà nước đó và Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam chưa cùng là thành viên của điều ước quốc tế;
c) Theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính đến địa chỉ của đương sự đang cư trú ở nước ngoài với điều kiện pháp luật nước đó đồng ý với phương thức tống đạt này;
d) Theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính đến cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài để tống đạt cho đương sự là công dân Việt Nam ở nước ngoài;
đ) Đối với cơ quan, tổ chức nước ngoài có văn phòng đại diện, chi nhánh tại Việt Nam thì việc tống đạt có thể được thực hiện qua văn phòng đại diện, chi nhánh của họ tại Việt Nam theo quy định của Bộ luật này;
e) Theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính cho người đại diện theo pháp luật hoặc đại diện theo ủy quyền tại Việt Nam của đương sự ở nước ngoài.
2. Các phương thức tống đạt quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản 1 Điều này được thực hiện theo pháp luật tương trợ tư pháp.
3. Trường hợp các phương thức tống đạt quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này thực hiện không có kết quả thì Tòa án tiến hành niêm yết công khai tại trụ sở cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài, Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ việc hoặc tại nơi cư trú cuối cùng của đương sự tại Việt Nam trong thời hạn 01 tháng và thông báo trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), Cổng thông tin điện tử của cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài; trường hợp cần thiết, Tòa án có thể thông báo qua kênh dành cho người nước ngoài của Đài phát thanh hoặc Đài truyền hình của trung ương ba lần trong 03 ngày liên tiếp.

Section 1515. Original section/article: 475. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thu thập chứng cứ ở nước ngoài Tòa án thực hiện thu thập chứng cứ ở nước ngoài theo một trong các phương thức sau đây:
1. Theo quy định tại điểm a và điểm b khoản 1

Section 1516. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Theo đường dịch vụ bưu chính yêu cầu đương sự là công dân Việt Nam đang cư trú ở nước ngoài gửi giấy tờ, tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án Việt Nam.

Section 1517. Original section/article: 476. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thông báo về việc thụ lý, ngày mở phiên họp, phiên tòa 
1. Tòa án phải gửi thông báo thụ lý vụ án, trong đó nêu rõ thời gian, địa điểm mở phiên họp kiểm tra việc giao nộp, tiếp cận, công khai chứng cứ và hòa giải (sau đây gọi chung là phiên họp hòa giải), mở lại phiên họp hòa giải, mở phiên tòa và mở lại phiên tòa trong văn bản thông báo thụ lý vụ án cho đương sự ở nước ngoài.
2. Thời hạn mở phiên tòa, phiên họp hòa giải được xác định như sau:
a) Phiên họp hòa giải phải được mở sớm nhất là 06 tháng và chậm nhất là 08 tháng, kể từ ngày ra văn bản thông báo thụ lý vụ án. Ngày mở lại phiên họp hòa giải (nếu có) được ấn định cách ngày mở phiên họp hòa giải chậm nhất là 01 tháng;
b) Phiên tòa phải được mở sớm nhất là 09 tháng và chậm nhất là 12 tháng, kể từ ngày ra văn bản thông báo thụ lý vụ án. Ngày mở lại phiên tòa (nếu có) được ấn định cách ngày mở phiên tòa chậm nhất là 01 tháng, trừ trường hợp quy định tại khoản 4

Section 1518. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
3. Tòa án phải gửi thông báo thụ lý việc dân sự, trong đó nêu rõ thời gian, địa điểm mở phiên họp, mở lại phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự trong văn bản thông báo thụ lý việc dân sự cho đương sự ở nước ngoài.
Phiên họp phải được mở sớm nhất là 06 tháng và chậm nhất là 08 tháng, kể từ ngày ra văn bản thông báo thụ lý việc dân sự. Ngày mở lại phiên họp giải quyết việc dân sự (nếu có) được ấn định cách ngày mở phiên họp lần đầu chậm nhất là 01 tháng.

Section 1519. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý kết quả tống đạt văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án cho đương sự ở nước ngoài và kết quả yêu cầu cơ quan có thẩm quyền của nước ngoài thu thập chứng cứ Khi nhận được kết quả tống đạt và kết quả thu thập chứng cứ ở nước ngoài, tùy từng trường hợp cụ thể mà Tòa án xử lý như sau:
1. Không mở phiên họp hòa giải khi đã nhận được kết quả tống đạt theo một trong các phương thức quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1520. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, đương sự đã cung cấp đầy đủ lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ và vụ án dân sự thuộc trường hợp không tiến hành hòa giải được quy định tại

Section 1521. Original section/article: 207. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
2. Hoãn phiên họp hòa giải nếu đã nhận được thông báo về việc tống đạt đã hoàn thành nhưng đến ngày mở phiên họp hòa giải mà Tòa án vẫn không nhận được lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ của đương sự và họ không đề nghị được vắng mặt tại phiên họp hòa giải. Nếu đến ngày mở lại phiên họp hòa giải mà đương sự ở nước ngoài vẫn vắng mặt thì Tòa án xác định đây là trường hợp không tiến hành hòa giải được;
3. Tòa án hoãn phiên tòa trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Đương sự ở nước ngoài đề nghị hoãn phiên tòa lần thứ nhất;
b) Đương sự ở nước ngoài vắng mặt tại phiên tòa lần thứ nhất, trừ trường hợp họ có đơn đề nghị xét xử vắng mặt;
4. Tòa án không nhận được văn bản thông báo về kết quả tống đạt cũng như lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ của đương sự ở nước ngoài và đến ngày mở phiên tòa đương sự ở nước ngoài không có mặt, không có đơn đề nghị Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt họ thì Tòa án hoãn phiên tòa. Ngay sau khi hoãn phiên tòa thì Tòa án có văn bản đề nghị Bộ Tư pháp hoặc cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài thông báo về việc thực hiện tống đạt văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án cho đương sự ở nước ngoài trong trường hợp Tòa án thực hiện việc tống đạt thông
qua các cơ quan này theo một trong các phương thức quy định tại các điểm a, b và d khoản 1

Section 1522. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
Trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản của Tòa án, cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài phải thông báo cho Tòa án về kết quả thực hiện việc tống đạt văn bản tố tụng cho đương sự ở nước ngoài.
Trong thời hạn 10 ngày, kể từ ngày Bộ Tư pháp nhận được văn bản của Tòa án, Bộ Tư pháp phải có văn bản đề nghị cơ quan có thẩm quyền ở nước ngoài trả lời về kết quả thực hiện ủy thác tư pháp.
Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản của cơ quan có thẩm quyền ở nước ngoài gửi về thì Bộ Tư pháp phải trả lời cho Tòa án.
Hết thời hạn 03 tháng, kể từ ngày chuyển văn bản của Tòa án cho cơ quan có thẩm quyền ở nước ngoài mà không nhận được văn bản trả lời thì Bộ Tư pháp phải thông báo cho Tòa án biết để làm căn cứ giải quyết vụ án;
5. Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt đương sự ở nước ngoài trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Tòa án đã nhận được kết quả tống đạt theo một trong các phương thức tống đạt quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1523. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này, đương sự đã cung cấp đầy đủ lời khai, tài liệu, chứng cứ và đương sự đề nghị Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt họ;
b) Tòa án đã thực hiện các biện pháp quy định tại khoản 3

Section 1524. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
c) Tòa án không nhận được thông báo của cơ quan có thẩm quyền theo quy định tại khoản 4 Điều này về kết quả thực hiện việc tống đạt cho đương sự ở nước ngoài.
6. Nếu Tòa án nhận được văn bản thông báo về việc tống đạt không thực hiện được do họ, tên, địa chỉ của đương sự không đúng hoặc đương sự đã chuyển đến địa chỉ mới nhưng không rõ địa chỉ mới thì Tòa án giải quyết như sau:
a) Tòa án yêu cầu nguyên đơn và người thân thích trong nước của đương sự ở nước ngoài (nếu có) cung cấp địa chỉ đúng hoặc địa chỉ mới của đương sự ở nước ngoài. Tòa án tiếp tục tống đạt thông báo thụ lý cho đương sự ở nước ngoài theo địa chỉ do nguyên đơn, người thân thích trong nước của đương sự ở nước ngoài cung cấp;
b) Nếu nguyên đơn, người thân thích trong nước của đương sự không cung cấp được hoặc người thân thích trong nước của đương sự từ chối cung cấp địa chỉ đúng hoặc địa chỉ mới của đương sự ở nước ngoài hoặc đương sự ở nước ngoài không có người thân thích ở Việt Nam thì Tòa án ra quyết định đình chỉ việc giải quyết vụ án. Đồng thời, Tòa án giải thích cho người khởi kiện biết quyền yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo tìm kiếm đương sự vắng mặt tại nơi cư trú hoặc yêu cầu Tòa án tuyên bố đương sự mất tích hoặc đã chết;
c) Trường hợp nguyên đơn là công dân Việt Nam yêu cầu ly hôn với người nước ngoài đang cư trú ở nước ngoài mà không thể thực hiện việc cung cấp đúng họ, tên, địa chỉ hoặc địa chỉ mới của người nước ngoài theo yêu cầu của Tòa án mặc dù nguyên đơn, thân nhân của họ hoặc cơ quan có thẩm quyền của Việt Nam hoặc của nước ngoài đã tiến hành xác minh tin tức, địa chỉ của người nước ngoài đó nhưng không có kết quả thì nguyên đơn yêu cầu Tòa án thông báo trên Cổng thông tin điện tử của Tòa án (nếu có), Cổng thông tin điện tử của cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài; trường hợp cần thiết, theo yêu cầu của
nguyên đơn, Tòa án có thể thông báo qua kênh dành cho người nước ngoài của Đài phát thanh hoặc Đài truyền hình của trung ương ba lần trong 03 ngày liên tiếp.
Trong trường hợp này, Tòa án không phải tống đạt lại văn bản tố tụng cho đương sự ở nước ngoài. Hết thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày đăng thông báo, Tòa án tiến hành xét xử vắng mặt đương sự.

Section 1525. Original section/article: 478. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Công nhận giấy tờ, tài liệu do cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân nước ngoài gửi cho Tòa án Việt Nam 1. Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận giấy tờ, tài liệu do cơ quan, tổ chức có thẩm quyền nước ngoài lập, cấp, xác nhận trong các trường hợp sau:
a) Giấy tờ, tài liệu và bản dịch tiếng Việt có công chứng, chứng thực đã được hợp pháp hóa lãnh sự;
b) Giấy tờ, tài liệu đó được miễn hợp pháp hóa lãnh sự theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam hoặc điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên.
2. Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận giấy tờ, tài liệu do cá nhân cư trú ở nước ngoài lập trong các trường hợp sau đây:
a) Giấy tờ, tài liệu lập bằng tiếng nước ngoài đã được dịch ra tiếng Việt có công chứng, chứng thực hợp pháp theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam;
b) Giấy tờ, tài liệu được lập ở nước ngoài được công chứng, chứng thực theo quy định của pháp luật nước ngoài và đã được hợp pháp hóa lãnh sự;
c) Giấy tờ, tài liệu do công dân Việt Nam ở nước ngoài lập bằng tiếng Việt có chữ ký của người lập giấy tờ, tài liệu đó và đã được công chứng, chứng thực theo quy định của pháp luật Việt Nam.

Section 1526. Original section/article: 479. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn kháng cáo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án xét xử vụ án dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài 1. Đương sự có mặt tại Việt Nam có quyền kháng cáo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án trong thời hạn quy định tại

Section 1527. Original section/article: 273. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này.
2. Đương sự cư trú ở nước ngoài không có mặt tại phiên tòa thì thời hạn kháng cáo bản án, quyết định của Tòa án là 01 tháng, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định được tống đạt hợp lệ hoặc kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định được niêm yết hợp lệ theo quy định của pháp luật.
3. Trường hợp Tòa án xét xử vắng mặt đương sự ở nước ngoài theo quy định tại điểm c khoản 5

Section 1528. Original section/article: 477. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì thời hạn kháng cáo là 12 tháng, kể từ ngày tuyên án.

Section 1529. Original section/article: 480. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng và xử lý kết quả tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm cho đương sự ở nước ngoài Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm thực hiện việc tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng xử lý kết quả tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng cho đương sự ở nước ngoài theo quy định tại các

Section 1530. Original section/article: 474. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 476 và 477 của Bộ luật này.

Section 1531. Original section/article: 481. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xác định và cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài để Tòa án áp dụng trong việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài 
Trường hợp Tòa án Việt Nam áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có yếu tố nước ngoài theo quy định của luật Việt Nam, điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên thì trách nhiệm xác định và cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài được thực hiện như sau:
1. Trường hợp đương sự được quyền lựa chọn pháp luật áp dụng là pháp luật nước ngoài và đã lựa chọn áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài đó thì có nghĩa vụ cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài đó cho Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ việc dân sự. Các đương sự chịu trách nhiệm về tính chính xác và hợp pháp của pháp luật nước ngoài đã cung cấp.
Trường hợp các đương sự không thống nhất được với nhau về pháp luật nước ngoài hoặc trong trường hợp cần thiết, Tòa án yêu cầu Bộ Tư pháp, Bộ ngoại giao, cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài hoặc thông qua Bộ ngoại giao đề nghị cơ quan đại diện ngoại giao của nước ngoài tại Việt Nam cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài;
2. Trường hợp luật của Việt Nam, điều ước quốc tế mà Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam là thành viên quy định phải áp dụng pháp luật nước ngoài thì đương sự có quyền cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài cho Tòa án hoặc Tòa án yêu cầu Bộ Tư pháp, Bộ Ngoại giao hoặc cơ quan đại diện nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam ở nước ngoài cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài;
3. Tòa án có thể yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có chuyên môn về pháp luật nước ngoài cung cấp thông tin về pháp luật nước ngoài;
4. Hết thời hạn 06 tháng, kể từ ngày Tòa án yêu cầu cung cấp pháp luật nước ngoài theo quy định tại Điều này mà không có kết quả thì Tòa án áp dụng pháp luật của Việt Nam để giải quyết vụ việc dân sự đó.
Phần thứ chín THI HÀNH BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN 
Chương XXXIX THI HÀNH BẢN ÁN, QUYẾT ĐỊNH DÂN SỰ CỦA TÒA ÁN

Section 1532. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Những bản án, quyết định của Tòa án được thi hành 1. Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án được thi hành là bản án, quyết định đã có hiệu lực pháp luật, bao gồm:
a) Bản án, quyết định hoặc phần bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm không bị kháng cáo, kháng nghị theo thủ tục phúc thẩm;
b) Bản án, quyết định của Tòa án cấp phúc thẩm;
c) Quyết định giám đốc thẩm hoặc tái thẩm của Tòa án; quyết định của Hội đồng Thẩm phán Tòa án nhân dân tối cao quy định tại

Section 1533. Original section/article: 360. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
d) Bản án, quyết định dân sự của Tòa án nước ngoài, phán quyết của Trọng tài nước ngoài đã được Tòa án Việt Nam công nhận và cho thi hành tại Việt Nam.
2. Những bản án, quyết định sau đây của Tòa án cấp sơ thẩm được thi hành ngay mặc dù có thể bị kháng cáo, khiếu nại, kháng nghị, kiến nghị:
a) Bản án, quyết định về cấp dưỡng, trả công lao động, nhận người lao động trở lại làm việc, trả lương, trợ cấp thôi việc, trợ cấp mất sức lao động, trợ cấp mất việc làm, bảo hiểm xã hội, bảo
hiểm thất nghiệp, bảo hiểm y tế hoặc bồi thường thiệt hại về tính mạng, sức khỏe, tổn thất tinh thần của công dân; quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công;
b) Quyết định về việc áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời.

Section 1534. Original section/article: 483. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Ghi nhận và giải thích về quyền yêu cầu thi hành án dân sự 1. Trường hợp trong bản án, quyết định của Tòa án có quyết định được thi hành theo quy định tại

Section 1535. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì trong phần quyết định của bản án, quyết định của Tòa án phải ghi rõ nội dung về quyền yêu cầu thi hành án, nghĩa vụ thi hành án, thời hiệu yêu cầu thi hành án.
2. Khi ra bản án, quyết định, Tòa án phải giải thích rõ cho đương sự biết về quyền yêu cầu thi hành án, nghĩa vụ thi hành án, thời hiệu yêu cầu thi hành án theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự.

Section 1536. Original section/article: 484. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Cấp bản án, quyết định của Tòa án Khi bản án, quyết định của Tòa án thuộc trường hợp được thi hành theo quy định tại

Section 1537. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định đó phải cấp cho người được thi hành án và người phải thi hành án bản án hoặc quyết định đó có ghi “để thi hành”.

Section 1538. Original section/article: 485. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn chuyển giao bản án, quyết định 1. Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định quy định tại khoản 1

Section 1539. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này phải chuyển giao bản án, quyết định đó cho cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền trong thời hạn 01 tháng, kể từ ngày bản án, quyết định có hiệu lực pháp luật, trừ trường hợp pháp luật có quy định khác.
2. Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định quy định tại điểm a khoản 2

Section 1540. Original section/article: 482. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này phải chuyển giao bản án, quyết định đó cho cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra bản án, quyết định.
3. Tòa án đã ra quyết định áp dụng biện pháp khẩn cấp tạm thời, quyết định về tính hợp pháp của cuộc đình công phải chuyển giao quyết định đó cho cơ quan thi hành án dân sự có thẩm quyền ngay sau khi ra quyết định.
4. Trường hợp cơ quan có thẩm quyền đã kê biên tài sản, tạm giữ tài sản, thu giữ vật chứng hoặc thu giữ các tài liệu khác có liên quan đến việc thi hành án thì khi chuyển giao bản án, quyết định cho cơ quan thi hành án dân sự, Tòa án phải gửi kèm theo bản sao biên bản về việc kê biên, tạm giữ tài sản, thu giữ vật chứng hoặc tài liệu khác có liên quan.

Section 1541. Original section/article: 486. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giải thích, sửa chữa bản án, quyết định của Tòa án 1. Người được thi hành án, người phải thi hành án, người có quyền lợi, nghĩa vụ liên quan đến việc thi hành bản án, quyết định của Tòa án và cơ quan thi hành án có quyền yêu cầu bằng văn bản Tòa án đã ra bản án, quyết định, giải thích, sửa chữa những điểm chưa rõ trong bản án, quyết định để thi hành.
2. Thẩm phán đã ra quyết định hoặc Thẩm phán là chủ tọa phiên tòa có trách nhiệm giải thích, sửa chữa những điểm chưa rõ trong bản án, quyết định của Tòa án. Trường hợp họ không còn là Thẩm phán của Tòa án thì Chánh án Tòa án đó có trách nhiệm giải thích, sửa chữa bản án, quyết định của Tòa án.
3. Việc giải thích bản án, quyết định của Tòa án phải căn cứ vào biên bản phiên tòa, biên bản phiên họp, biên bản nghị án. Việc sửa chữa bản án, quyết định được thực hiện theo quy định tại

Section 1542. Original section/article: 487. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giải quyết yêu cầu, kiến nghị đối với bản án, quyết định của Tòa án Trường hợp cơ quan thi hành án dân sự kiến nghị về việc xem xét lại bản án, quyết định của Tòa án theo thủ tục giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm thì Tòa án có thẩm quyền phải trả lời trong thời hạn 03 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được kiến nghị; trường hợp vụ việc phức tạp thì thời hạn trả lời không quá 04 tháng, kể từ ngày nhận được văn bản kiến nghị.

Section 1543. Original section/article: 488. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền, thủ tục xét miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đối với khoản thu nộp ngân sách nhà nước của Tòa án 1. Thẩm quyền xét miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đối với khoản thu nộp ngân sách nhà nước của Tòa án được xác định như sau:
a) Tòa án nhân dân cấp huyện nơi cơ quan thi hành án dân sự đang tổ chức việc thi hành án có trụ sở, có thẩm quyền xét đề nghị việc miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đối với khoản thu nộp ngân sách nhà nước;
b) Tòa án nhân dân cấp tỉnh có thẩm quyền xem xét theo thủ tục phúc thẩm đối với quyết định miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đối với khoản thu nộp ngân sách nhà nước của Tòa án bị Viện kiểm sát kháng nghị;
c) Tòa án nhân dân cấp cao có thẩm quyền xem xét theo thủ tục tái thẩm quyết định miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đã có hiệu lực pháp luật của Tòa án trong phạm vi thẩm quyền theo lãnh thổ bị kháng nghị.
2. Trình tự, thủ tục xét miễn, giảm nghĩa vụ thi hành án đối với khoản thu nộp ngân sách nhà nước được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật thi hành án dân sự.
Phần thứ mười XỬ LÝ HÀNH VI CẢN TRỞ HOẠT ĐỘNG TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ; KHIẾU NẠI, TỐ CÁO 
TRONG TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ Chương XL 
XỬ LÝ HÀNH VI CẢN TRỞ HOẠT ĐỘNG TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ

Section 1544. Original section/article: 489. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi cản trở hoạt động xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ của người tiến hành tố tụng Người nào có một trong các hành vi sau đây thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà có thể bị xử lý kỷ luật, xử phạt hành chính hoặc truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật:
1. Làm giả, hủy hoại chứng cứ quan trọng gây trở ngại cho việc giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án;
2. Từ chối khai báo, khai báo gian dối hoặc cung cấp tài liệu sai sự thật khi làm chứng;
3. Từ chối kết luận giám định hoặc từ chối cung cấp tài liệu mà không có lý do chính đáng, kết luận giám định sai sự thật;
4. Cố ý dịch sai sự thật;
5. Không cử người tham gia Hội đồng định giá theo yêu cầu của Tòa án mà không có lý do chính đáng; không tham gia thực hiện nhiệm vụ của Hội đồng định giá mà không có lý do chính đáng;
6. Cản trở người tiến hành tố tụng tiến hành xem xét thẩm định tại chỗ, định giá, giám định hoặc xác minh, thu thập chứng cứ khác do Bộ luật này quy định;
7. Lừa dối, mua chuộc, đe dọa, cưỡng ép, sử dụng vũ lực nhằm ngăn cản người làm chứng ra làm chứng hoặc buộc người khác ra làm chứng gian dối;
8. Lừa dối, mua chuộc, đe dọa, cưỡng ép, sử dụng vũ lực nhằm ngăn cản người giám định thực hiện nhiệm vụ hoặc buộc người giám định kết luận sai với sự thật khách quan;
9. Lừa dối, mua chuộc, đe dọa, cưỡng ép, sử dụng vũ lực nhằm ngăn cản người phiên dịch thực hiện nhiệm vụ hoặc buộc người phiên dịch dịch không trung thực, không khách quan, không đúng nghĩa.

Section 1545. Original section/article: 490. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi cố ý không có mặt theo giấy triệu tập của Tòa án 1. Người làm chứng, người phiên dịch, người giám định đã được Tòa án triệu tập hợp lệ nhưng cố ý không đến Tòa án hoặc không có mặt tại phiên tòa, phiên họp mà không có lý do chính đáng và nếu sự vắng mặt của họ gây trở ngại cho việc thu thập, xác minh chứng cứ hoặc giải quyết vụ việc thì bị xử phạt hành chính theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Trong trường hợp quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này, Tòa án có quyền ra quyết định dẫn giải người làm chứng đến phiên tòa, phiên họp, trừ trường hợp người làm chứng là người chưa thành niên. Quyết định dẫn giải người làm chứng phải ghi rõ thời gian, địa điểm ra quyết định; họ, tên, chức vụ người ra quyết định; họ, tên, ngày, tháng, năm sinh, nơi cư trú của người làm chứng; thời gian, địa điểm người làm chứng phải có mặt.
3. Cơ quan công an có nhiệm vụ thi hành quyết định của Tòa án dẫn giải người làm chứng. Người thi hành quyết định dẫn giải người làm chứng phải đọc, giải thích quyết định dẫn giải cho người bị dẫn giải biết và lập biên bản về việc dẫn giải.

Section 1546. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi vi phạm nội quy phiên tòa 1. Người có hành vi vi phạm nội quy phiên tòa quy định tại

Section 1547. Original section/article: 234. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà có thể bị chủ tọa phiên tòa xử phạt hành chính theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Chủ tọa phiên tòa có quyền ra quyết định buộc người vi phạm quy định tại khoản 1 Điều này rời khỏi phòng xử án. Cơ quan công an có nhiệm vụ bảo vệ phiên tòa hoặc người có nhiệm vụ bảo vệ trật tự phiên tòa thi hành quyết định của chủ tọa phiên tòa về việc buộc rời khỏi phòng xử án hoặc tạm giữ hành chính người gây rối trật tự tại phiên tòa.
3. Trường hợp người vi phạm nội quy phiên tòa đến mức phải bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự thì Tòa án có quyền khởi tố vụ án hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật về tố tụng hình sự.
4. Quy định tại Điều này cũng được áp dụng đối với người có hành vi vi phạm tại phiên họp của Tòa án.

Section 1548. Original section/article: 492. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi xúc phạm, xâm hại đến sự tôn nghiêm, uy tín của Tòa án, danh dự, nhân phẩm, sức khoẻ của người tiến hành tố tụng hoặc những người khác thực hiện nhiệm vụ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án 
Người có hành vi xúc phạm, xâm hại đến sự tôn nghiêm, uy tín của Tòa án, danh dự, nhân phẩm, sức khỏe của người tiến hành tố tụng hoặc những người khác thực hiện nhiệm vụ theo yêu cầu của Tòa án thì tuỳ theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử phạt hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1549. Original section/article: 493. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi cản trở việc cấp, giao, nhận, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án Người có một trong các hành vi sau đây thì tuỳ theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử lý kỷ luật, xử phạt hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật:
1. Không thực hiện việc cấp, giao, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án theo yêu cầu của Tòa án mà không có lý do chính đáng;
2. Hủy hoại văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án mà mình được giao để cấp, tống đạt, thông báo theo yêu cầu của Tòa án;
3. Giả mạo kết quả thực hiện việc tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án mà mình được giao thực hiện;
4. Ngăn cản việc cấp, giao, nhận, tống đạt, thông báo văn bản tố tụng của Tòa án.

Section 1550. Original section/article: 494. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi cản trở đại diện của cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc cá nhân tham gia tố tụng theo yêu cầu của Tòa án Người có hành vi đe dọa, hành hung hoặc lợi dụng sự lệ thuộc nhằm cản trở đại diện của cơ quan, tổ chức hoặc cá nhân đến phiên tòa, phiên họp theo triệu tập của Tòa án thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử phạt hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1551. Original section/article: 495. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi không thi hành quyết định của Tòa án về việc cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ cho Tòa án hoặc đưa tin sai sự thật nhằm cản trở việc giải quyết vụ án của Tòa án 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân không thi hành quyết định của Tòa án về việc cung cấp tài liệu, chứng cứ mà cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân đó đang quản lý, lưu giữ thì có thể bị Tòa án xử phạt hành chính theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Người có hành vi đưa tin sai sự thật nhằm cản trở Tòa án giải quyết vụ án thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử phạt hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1552. Original section/article: 496. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Xử lý hành vi can thiệp vào việc giải quyết vụ việc dân sự Người nào bằng ảnh hưởng của mình có hành vi tác động dưới bất kỳ hình thức nào đối với Thẩm phán, thành viên Hội đồng xét xử nhằm làm cho việc giải quyết vụ việc không khách quan, không đúng pháp luật thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử lý kỷ luật, xử phạt hành chính hoặc bị truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1553. Original section/article: 497. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm của Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát trong trường hợp Tòa án khởi tố vụ án hình sự 1. Trường hợp Tòa án khởi tố vụ án hình sự theo quy định tại khoản 3 và khoản 4

Section 1554. Original section/article: 491. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này thì trong thời hạn 15 ngày, kể từ ngày ra quyết định khởi tố, Tòa án phải chuyển cho
Viện kiểm sát có thẩm quyền quyết định khởi tố vụ án và tài liệu, chứng cứ để chứng minh hành vi phạm tội.
2. Viện kiểm sát có trách nhiệm xem xét, xử lý theo quy định của Bộ luật tố tụng hình sự.

Section 1555. Original section/article: 498. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hình thức xử phạt, thẩm quyền, trình tự, thủ tục xử phạt Hình thức xử phạt, thẩm quyền, trình tự, thủ tục xử phạt hành chính đối với các hành vi cản trở hoạt động tố tụng dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định của Luật xử lý vi phạm hành chính và pháp luật có liên quan.
Chương XLI KHIẾU NẠI, TỐ CÁO TRONG TỐ TỤNG DÂN SỰ

Section 1556. Original section/article: 499. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng dân sự có thể bị khiếu nại 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có quyền khiếu nại quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng dân sự của cơ quan, người tiến hành tố tụng dân sự khi có căn cứ cho rằng quyết định, hành vi đó là trái pháp luật, xâm phạm quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của mình.
2. Đối với bản án, quyết định sơ thẩm, phúc thẩm, giám đốc thẩm, tái thẩm của Tòa án nếu có kháng cáo, kháng nghị và các quyết định tố tụng khác do người tiến hành tố tụng dân sự ban hành nếu có khiếu nại, kiến nghị thì không giải quyết theo quy định của Chương này mà được giải quyết theo quy định của các chương tương ứng của Bộ luật này.

Section 1557. Original section/article: 500. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người khiếu nại 1. Người khiếu nại có các quyền sau đây:
a) Tự mình hoặc thông qua người đại diện hợp pháp khiếu nại;
b) Khiếu nại trong bất kỳ giai đoạn nào của quá trình giải quyết vụ án;
c) Rút khiếu nại trong bất kỳ giai đoạn nào của quá trình giải quyết khiếu nại;
d) Được nhận văn bản trả lời về việc thụ lý để giải quyết khiếu nại; nhận quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại;
đ) Được khôi phục quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp đã bị xâm phạm, được bồi thường thiệt hại theo quy định của pháp luật.
2. Người khiếu nại có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Khiếu nại đến đúng người có thẩm quyền giải quyết;
b) Trình bày trung thực sự việc, cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu cho người giải quyết khiếu nại; chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về nội dung trình bày và việc cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu đó;
c) Không được lạm dụng quyền khiếu nại để cản trở hoạt động tố tụng của Tòa án;
d) Chấp hành quyết định, hành vi của người tiến hành tố tụng mà mình đang khiếu nại trong thời gian khiếu nại;
đ) Chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại đã có hiệu lực pháp luật.

Section 1558. Original section/article: 501. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người bị khiếu nại 1. Người bị khiếu nại có các quyền sau đây:
a) Được biết các căn cứ khiếu nại của người khiếu nại; đưa ra bằng chứng về tính hợp pháp của quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng bị khiếu nại;
b) Được nhận quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại về quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng của mình.
2. Người bị khiếu nại có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Giải trình về quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng dân sự bị khiếu nại; cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu liên quan khi cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền yêu cầu;
b) Chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại đã có hiệu lực pháp luật;
c) Bồi thường thiệt hại, bồi hoàn hoặc khắc phục hậu quả do quyết định, hành vi trong tố tụng dân sự trái pháp luật của mình gây ra theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1559. Original section/article: 502. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hiệu khiếu nại Thời hiệu khiếu nại là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày người khiếu nại nhận được hoặc biết được quyết định, hành vi tố tụng mà người đó cho rằng có vi phạm pháp luật.
Trường hợp có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan mà người khiếu nại không thực hiện được quyền khiếu nại theo đúng thời hạn quy định tại Điều này thì thời gian có sự kiện bất khả kháng hoặc trở ngại khách quan đó không tính vào thời hiệu khiếu nại.

Section 1560. Original section/article: 503. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hình thức khiếu nại Việc khiếu nại phải được thực hiện bằng đơn. Trong đơn khiếu nại phải ghi rõ ngày, tháng, năm; họ, tên, địa chỉ của người khiếu nại; nội dung, lý do khiếu nại, yêu cầu của người khiếu nại, có chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người khiếu nại.

Section 1561. Original section/article: 504. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền giải quyết khiếu nại đối với quyết định, hành vi của người tiến hành tố tụng 1. Khiếu nại quyết định, hành vi của người tiến hành tố tụng là Thẩm phán, Phó Chánh án, Thẩm tra viên, Thư ký Tòa án, Hội thẩm nhân dân do Chánh án Tòa án đang giải quyết vụ việc dân sự có thẩm quyền giải quyết.
Đối với khiếu nại quyết định, hành vi tố tụng của Chánh án Tòa án thì Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp có thẩm quyền giải quyết.
2. Khiếu nại quyết định, hành vi của người tiến hành tố tụng là Kiểm sát viên, Kiểm tra viên, Phó Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát do Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát giải quyết.
Đối với khiếu nại quyết định, hành vi tố tụng của Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát thì Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp có thẩm quyền giải quyết.
3. Khiếu nại quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu của Chánh án Tòa án, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát quy định tại khoản 1 và khoản 2 Điều này do Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp giải quyết.

Section 1562. Original section/article: 505. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thời hạn giải quyết khiếu nại Thời hạn giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu là 15 ngày, kể từ ngày Tòa án, Viện kiểm sát nhận được khiếu nại. Trường hợp cần thiết, đối với vụ việc có tính chất phức tạp thì thời hạn giải quyết khiếu nại có thể được kéo dài nhưng không quá 15 ngày, kể từ ngày hết thời hạn giải quyết khiếu nại.

Section 1563. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Nội dung quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu 1. Người giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu phải ra quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại bằng văn bản. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại phải có các nội dung sau đây:
a) Ngày, tháng, năm ra quyết định;
b) Tên, địa chỉ của người khiếu nại, người bị khiếu nại;
c) Nội dung khiếu nại;
d) Kết quả xác minh nội dung khiếu nại;
đ) Căn cứ pháp luật để giải quyết khiếu nại;
e) Nội dung quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại.
2. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu phải được gửi cho người khiếu nại, cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức có liên quan; trường hợp là quyết định của Chánh án Tòa án thì còn phải gửi cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.

Section 1564. Original section/article: 507. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai 1. Trong thời hạn 05 ngày làm việc, kể từ ngày người khiếu nại nhận được quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu, nếu không đồng ý với quyết định đó thì có quyền khiếu nại đến người có thẩm quyền giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai.
2. Đơn khiếu nại phải kèm theo bản sao quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu và các tài liệu kèm theo.
Đơn khiếu nại phải ghi rõ ngày, tháng năm làm đơn; họ, tên, địa chỉ của người khiếu nại; nội dung, lý do khiếu nại; có chữ ký hoặc điểm chỉ của người khiếu nại.
3. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai phải có các nội dung sau đây:
a) Các nội dung quy định tại các điểm a, b, c, d và đ khoản 1

Section 1565. Original section/article: 506. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
b) Kết quả giải quyết khiếu nại của người giải quyết khiếu nại lần đầu;
c) Kết luận về từng vấn đề cụ thể trong nội dung khiếu nại của người khiếu nại và việc giải quyết của người giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai.
4. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai phải được gửi cho người khiếu nại, cá nhân, cơ quan, tổ chức có liên quan; trường hợp là quyết định của Chánh án Tòa án thì còn phải gửi cho Viện kiểm sát cùng cấp.
5. Quyết định giải quyết khiếu nại lần hai có hiệu lực thi hành.

Section 1566. Original section/article: 508. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Giải quyết khiếu nại về hoạt động giám định trong tố tụng dân sự Việc giải quyết khiếu nại về hoạt động giám định trong tố tụng dân sự được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về giám định tư pháp và pháp luật có liên quan.

Section 1567. Original section/article: 509. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Người có quyền tố cáo Cá nhân có quyền tố cáo với cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền về hành vi vi phạm pháp luật của người có thẩm quyền tiến hành tố tụng gây thiệt hại hoặc đe dọa gây thiệt hại đến lợi ích của Nhà nước, quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân.

Section 1568. Original section/article: 510. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người tố cáo 1. Người tố cáo có các quyền sau đây:
a) Gửi đơn hoặc trực tiếp tố cáo với cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền;
b) Yêu cầu giữ bí mật họ, tên, địa chỉ, bút tích của mình;
c) Yêu cầu được thông báo kết quả giải quyết tố cáo;
d) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền bảo vệ khi bị đe dọa, trù dập, trả thù.
2. Người tố cáo có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Trình bày trung thực về nội dung tố cáo;
b) Nêu rõ họ, tên, địa chỉ của mình;
c) Chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về việc tố cáo sai sự thật.

Section 1569. Original section/article: 511. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Quyền, nghĩa vụ của người bị tố cáo 1. Người bị tố cáo có các quyền sau đây:
a) Được thông báo về nội dung tố cáo;
b) Đưa ra bằng chứng để chứng minh nội dung tố cáo là không đúng sự thật;
c) Được khôi phục quyền và lợi ích hợp pháp bị xâm phạm; được phục hồi danh dự, được bồi thường thiệt hại do việc tố cáo không đúng gây ra;
d) Yêu cầu cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền xử lý người tố cáo sai sự thật.
2. Người bị tố cáo có các nghĩa vụ sau đây:
a) Giải trình về hành vi bị tố cáo; cung cấp thông tin, tài liệu liên quan khi cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền yêu cầu;
b) Chấp hành nghiêm chỉnh quyết định xử lý của cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền;
c) Bồi thường thiệt hại, bồi hoàn hoặc khắc phục hậu quả do hành vi tố tụng dân sự trái pháp luật của mình gây ra theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1570. Original section/article: 512. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền và thời hạn giải quyết tố cáo 1. Tố cáo hành vi vi phạm pháp luật của người có thẩm quyền tiến hành tố tụng thuộc cơ quan có thẩm quyền nào thì người đứng đầu cơ quan đó có trách nhiệm giải quyết.
Trường hợp người bị tố cáo là Chánh án, Phó Chánh án Tòa án, Viện trưởng, Phó Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát thì Chánh án Tòa án trên một cấp trực tiếp, Viện trưởng Viện kiểm sát cấp trên trực tiếp có trách nhiệm giải quyết.
Thời hạn giải quyết tố cáo là không quá 02 tháng, kể từ ngày thụ lý; đối với vụ việc phức tạp thì thời hạn giải quyết tố cáo có thể dài hơn, nhưng không quá 03 tháng.
2. Tố cáo về hành vi vi phạm pháp luật có dấu hiệu tội phạm được giải quyết theo quy định của Bộ luật tố tụng hình sự.

Section 1571. Original section/article: 513. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thủ tục giải quyết tố cáo Thủ tục giải quyết tố cáo được thực hiện theo quy định của pháp luật về tố cáo.

Section 1572. Original section/article: 514. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Trách nhiệm của người có thẩm quyền giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo 1. Cơ quan, tổ chức, cá nhân có thẩm quyền trong phạm vi nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn của mình có trách nhiệm tiếp nhận và giải quyết kịp thời, đúng pháp luật; xử lý nghiêm minh người vi phạm; áp dụng biện pháp cần thiết nhằm ngăn chặn thiệt hại có thể xảy ra; bảo đảm cho quyết định giải quyết được thi hành nghiêm chỉnh và phải chịu trách nhiệm trước pháp luật về quyết định của mình.
2. Người có thẩm quyền giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo mà không giải quyết, thiếu trách nhiệm trong việc giải quyết, giải quyết trái pháp luật thì tùy theo tính chất, mức độ vi phạm mà bị xử lý kỷ luật hoặc truy cứu trách nhiệm hình sự; nếu gây thiệt hại thì phải bồi thường theo quy định của pháp luật.

Section 1573. Original section/article: 515. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong việc giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo trong tố tụng dân sự Viện kiểm sát kiểm sát việc tuân theo pháp luật trong việc giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo trong tố tụng dân sự theo quy định của pháp luật. Viện kiểm sát có quyền yêu cầu, kiến nghị đối với Tòa án cùng cấp và cấp dưới, cơ quan, tổ chức và cá nhân có trách nhiệm để bảo đảm việc giải quyết khiếu nại, tố cáo có căn cứ, đúng pháp luật.
Chương XLII ĐIỀU KHOẢN THI HÀNH

Section 1574. Original section/article: 516. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Sửa đổi, bổ sung một số điều của Bộ luật lao động số 10/2012/QH13 1.

Section 1575. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
được sửa đổi, bổ sung như sau:
“

Section 1576. Original section/article: 51. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Thẩm quyền tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu Tòa án nhân dân có quyền tuyên bố hợp đồng lao động vô hiệu.”
2. Bãi bỏ các

Section 1577. Original section/article: 223. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232 và 234 Mục 5 Chương XIV của Bộ luật lao động số 10/2012/QH13.

Section 1578. Original section/article: 517. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
Hiệu lực thi hành 1. Bộ luật này có hiệu lực thi hành từ ngày 01 tháng 7 năm 2016, trừ các quy định sau đây của Bộ luật này có liên quan đến quy định của Bộ luật dân sự số 91/2015/QH13 thì có hiệu lực thi hành từ ngày 01 tháng 01 năm 2017:
a) Quy định liên quan đến việc Tòa án không được từ chối giải quyết vụ việc dân sự vì lý do chưa có điều luật để áp dụng quy định tại khoản 2

Section 1579. Original section/article: 43. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
, 44 và 45 của Bộ luật này;
b) Quy định liên quan đến người có khó khăn trong nhận thức, làm chủ hành vi;
c) Quy định liên quan đến áp dụng thời hiệu tại khoản 2

Section 1580. Original section/article: 217. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
của Bộ luật này;
d) Quy định liên quan đến pháp nhân là người đại diện, người giám hộ.
2. Bộ luật tố tụng dân sự số 24/2004/QH11 đã được sửa đổi, bổ sung theo Luật số 65/2011/QH12 hết hiệu lực kể từ ngày Bộ luật này có hiệu lực thi hành, trừ các quy định tại

Section 1581. Original section/article: 192. Source: Vietnam Civil Procedure Code No. 92/2015/QH13.
tiếp tục có hiệu lực thi hành đến hết ngày 31 tháng 12 năm 2016.
Bộ luật này đã được Quốc hội nước Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam khóa XIII, kỳ họp thứ 10 thông qua ngày 25 tháng 11 năm 2015. 
CHỦ TỊCH QUỐC HỘI 
Nguyễn Sinh Hùng 
Legislation 
Is amended by (1 text(s) ) 
Is amended by (1 text(s) ) 
Law No. 34/2024/QH15 of June 24, 2024, on the Organization of People’s Courts (VN173)
Is implemented by (1 text(s) ) 
Is implemented by (1 text(s) ) 
Resolution No. 02/2020/NQ-HDTP of September 24, 2020, of the Judicial Council of the Supreme People’s Court Guiding the Application of Some Provisions Stipulating Provisional Measures in Civil Procedure Code (VN147)
Historical Versions 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Repeals (1 text(s) ) 
Civil Procedures Code No. 24/2004/QH11 of June 15, 2004 (VN015)
No data available. 
WIPO Lex No. 
VN083
