Kazakhstan source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences
Category: Administrative offences
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/K1400000235
Note: Current administrative offences code; Adilet official English reference.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1. LEGISLATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions
1. Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions consists of this Code.
2. This Code is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, generally accepted principles and rules of international law.
2-1. Amendments and (or) additions to this Code shall be made by the law, not providing for amendments and additions to other legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This provision shall not apply to cases of exclusion of administrative responsibility, as well as to draft laws developed as a legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. International contractual and other obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as regulatory decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan regulating administrative and tort legal relations, are an integral part of the legislation on administrative offenses.
4. International treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have a priority before this Code and shall be applied directly, except for the cases when it follows from the international treaty that for its application the issuance of the law is required. If international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan establishes other rules than those provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions, the rules of the international treaty shall be applied.
Footnote.

Section 3. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 4. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Basis for administrative liability
Basis for administrative liability is commission of the act containing all signs of component elements of the infraction provided in the Special part of this Code.

Section 5. Original section/article: 3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Force of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on liability for administrative infractions in space
1. The person that committed administrative infraction in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be subject to liability according to this Code.
2. Administrative infraction committed in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be recognized as the act that was commenced or continued or was completed in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Force of this Code shall also apply to administrative infractions committed in a continental shelve and in exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. The person that committed administrative infraction on a ship registered at a port of the Republic of Kazakhstan and being in open water or air space outside the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be subject to administrative liability according to this Code, unless otherwise provided by the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan. According to this Code, the person that committed administrative infraction on a warship or military aircraft of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall also bear administrative liability independently from its location.
4. The issue on administrative liability of diplomatic representatives of foreign states and other foreign persons that enjoy immunities in case of commission of the infraction by these persons in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be resolved in accordance with the rules of international law.

Section 6. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Force of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on liability for administrative infractions in time
1. The person that committed administrative infraction shall be subject to liability on the basis of the legislation being valid during commission of this infraction.
2. Time of committing administrative infraction shall be recognized as the time of carrying out the act provided by the Special part of this Code, independently from time of ensuing of consequences.

Section 7. Original section/article: 5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Retroactive force of the Law on administrative infractions
1. The Law that mitigating or exempting administrative liability for administrative infraction or otherwise improving position of a person that committed administrative infraction shall have a retroactive force, in other words shall apply to the infraction committed before entering of this Law into force and in respect of which, the decree on imposition of administrative sanction is not performed.
2. The Law establishing or strengthening administrative liability for administrative infraction or otherwise aggravating the position of a person shall not have a retroactive force.
Footnote.

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
Chapter 2. TASKS AND PRINCIPLES OF THE LEGISLATION ON
ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS

Section 9. Original section/article: 6. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Tasks of the legislation on administrative infractions
1. Legislation on administrative infractions is tasked with protection of rights, freedoms and legal interests of a human and citizen, health, sanitary epidemiological welfare of population, environment, public morality, property, public order and safety, established order of carrying out the state power and state management, rights and interests of organizations protected by the law from administrative infractions, as well as prevention of their commission.
2. For carrying out of this task, the legislation on administrative infractions shall establish the grounds and principles of administrative infraction, determines which acts are administrative infractions and types of sanctions imposed for their commission, as well as which administrative sanction, by which state body (civil servant) and in which manner may be imposed on a person that committed the administrative infraction.

Section 10. Original section/article: 7. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Meaning of principles of the legislation on administrative infractions
Meaning of principles of the legislation on administrative infractions is that their violation depending on its character and essentiality entail recognition of the accomplished proceeding on a case as invalid, revocation of decisions delivered in the course of such proceeding or recognition of materials that are not valid as evidences collected by this.

Section 11. Original section/article: 8. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Legality
1. Administrative infractions, measures of administrative sanction, measures of supporting the proceeding on the case on administrative infraction and measures of administrative legal effect shall be determined only by this Code. No one may be subjected to administrative infraction, measures of administrative legal effect or measures of supporting the proceeding on the case on administrative infraction otherwise as on the basis and in the manner established by this Code.
2. Court, bodies (civil servants) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions upon proceeding on the cases on administrative infractions shall be obliged to comply exactly the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this Code, other regulatory legal acts mentioned in

Section 12. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have a supreme legal force and direct force in the whole territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. In case of inconsistency between the rules established by the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the provisions of the Constitution shall be applied.
3. Courts have no right to apply laws and other regulatory legal acts that infringe on the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan. If the court finds that a law or other regulatory legal act subject to application infringes on the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution, it is obliged to suspend the proceedings and apply to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a recommendation on recognition of this act unconstitutional. Upon receipt by the court of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the proceedings in the case are resumed.
Decisions of courts and bodies (civil servants) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions based on the Law or another regulatory legal act recognized as unconstitutional shall not be subject to execution.
4. Breach of the Law by a court, bodies (civil servants) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions upon proceeding on cases on administrative infractions shall be inadmissible and entail the liability established by the Law, recognition of adopted acts as invalid and their repeal.
Footnote.

Section 13. Original section/article: 8. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 14. Original section/article: 9. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Equality before the Law and court
In the course of proceeding on the cases on administrative infractions, all are equal before the Law and court. No one may be subjected to any discrimination based on origin, social, official and property status, gender, race, nationality, language, attitude to religion, convictions, residence places or by any other circumstances.

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Presumption of innocence
1. A person in respect of whom, an administrative offense case is initiated, shall be considered innocent until his (her) guilt is proved in accordance with the procedure provided by this Code and established by an effective decision of a judge, body (official), who has examined the case within his (her) own powers.
In event of consideration the case of an administrative offense in the procedure of reduced production, as well as on the order for the need to pay a fine, the person in respect of whom an administrative offense case has been initiated, shall be considered innocent until the relevant decision comes into force.
2. No one is obliged to prove own guiltless.
3. Any doubts in guilty shall be interpreted in favor of a person in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated. The doubts arising upon application of the legislation on administrative infractions shall be also resolved in his (her) favor.
Footnote.

Section 16. Original section/article: 10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 17. Original section/article: 11. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Principle of guilt
1. Individual shall be subject to administrative liability only for those infractions in respect of which his (her) guilty is established. Objective opinion, in other words, the administrative liability for guiltless infliction of harm by the individual shall not be allowed.
2. Individual that committed the act intentionally or carelessly shall be recognized guilty in administrative infraction.

Section 18. Original section/article: 12. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inadmissibility of repeated bringing to administrative infraction
No one can be re-brought to administrative responsibility for the same offense.
Footnote.

Section 19. Original section/article: 12. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 20. Original section/article: 13. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Principle of humanism
Administrative sanction applied to a person that committed infraction may not be aimed at infliction of physical sufferings or abasement of human dignity.

Section 21. Original section/article: 14. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Personal immunity
1. No one may be subjected to administrative detention, bringing, delivery to internal affairs bodies (police) or other state bodies, personal inspection and inspection of the items of property being at individual or other measures of supporting proceeding on the case on administrative infraction other than on the grounds and in the manner established by this Code.
2. Administrative arrest as a measure of administrative sanction may be imposed only under decree of a judge in cases and in the manner established by this Code.
3. Each detained person, subjected to bringing, delivered to the internal affairs bodies (police) or other state body shall be informed immediately on the grounds for detention, bringing, delivery, as well as legal classification of the administrative infraction, the commission of which is charged with him (her).
4. State body (civil servant) shall be obliged to release immediately a person being detained, subjected to bringing, delivery unlawfully or being under administrative arrest in excess of the term provided by the decree of a judge.
5. No one of those persons participating in a case on administrative infraction may be subject to tortures, violence, cruel treatment or degrading human dignity.
6. Commission of the actions in the process of proceeding on the case on administrative infraction against the will of a person or his (her) representative, violating personal immunity shall be possible only in cases and in the manner provided directly by this Code.
7. Detention of a person in respect of whom the administrative arrest is elected as a measure of administrative sanction, as well as person being subjected to administrative detention shall be carried out in conditions excluding a threat of his (her) life and health.
8. Harm inflicted to an individual in a result of illegal administrative arrest, detention in conditions being harmful for life and health, cruel treatment with him (her) shall be subject to compensation in the manner provided by the Law.

Section 22. Original section/article: 15. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Respect of honor and dignity of person
1. Upon proceeding on cases on administrative infractions, the decisions and actions degrading honor or derogating dignity of a person participated in the case shall be prohibited, the collection, use and distribution of details on private life, and equally details of personal and business character that the person considers necessary to keep in secret shall not be allowed for the purposes not provided by this Code.
2. Moral damage inflicted to a person in the course of proceeding on the cases on administrative infractions by illegal actions of a court, other state bodies and civil servants shall be subject to compensation in the manner established by the Law.

Section 23. Original section/article: 16. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inviolability of private life and protection of secret
Private life, personal, family, commercial and other secret protected by the Law shall be under the protection of the Law. Everyone shall have the right to secrecy of personal contributions and funds, correspondence, postal, telegraph and other messages. Restriction of these rights in the course of proceeding on the case on administrative infraction shall be allowed only in cases and in the manner established directly by the Law.

Section 24. Original section/article: 17. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inviolability of property
1. Property shall be guaranteed by the Law. No one may be deprived of own property other than under the court decision.
2. Withdrawal of property and documents; removal from controlling transport vehicles, small size vessels; detention of a transport vehicle, small size vessel; survey of transport vehicles, small size vessels; inspection of territories, premises, transport vehicles, goods, other property, as well as the relevant documents, application of other measures of ensuring the proceeding on the case on administrative infraction encroaching on the property may be performed only in cases and in the manner provided by this Code.

Section 25. Original section/article: 18. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Independency of court (judge) and body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions
Courts (judges) and bodies (civil servants) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall resolve them in conditions that exclude outside influence on them. Any interference in activity of a court (judge) and body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the case on administrative infractions shall be inadmissible and entail the liability established by the Law.

Section 26. Original section/article: 19. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release from obligation to give testimonies
1. No one shall be obliged to give testimonies against oneself, husband (wife) and own close relatives, the circle of which is determined by the Law.
2. Churchmen shall not be obliged to testify against those who became confidential with them in confession.
3. The Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan is not obliged to testify about the circumstances that became known to him in connection with the performance of his official duties.
4. In the cases provided for by parts one, two and three of this article, these persons have the right to refuse to testify and cannot be subjected to any liability for this.
Footnote.

Section 27. Original section/article: 19. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication).

Section 28. Original section/article: 20. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Ensuring of rights to qualification legal assistance
1. Everyone shall have the right to receive qualification legal assistance in the course of administrative proceeding in accordance with provisions of this Code.
2. In cases provided by the Law, the legal assistance shall be rendered without payment.

Section 29. Original section/article: 21. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Publicity of proceeding on the cases on administrative infractions
1. Court, bodies (civil servants) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall carry out the proceeding on these cases on a public basis.
2. In accordance with the Law, the closed proceeding shall be carried out in respect of the cases containing details being the state secrets, as well as upon satisfaction of a court, body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infraction, petition of a person participating in the case relating to necessity of keeping a secrecy of adoption, preservation of personal, family, commercial or another secrecy protection by the Law, details on intimacy of individuals or to other circumstances impeding to public hearing.
3. Personal correspondence and personal telegraph messages of individuals may be announced upon opened proceeding only with the agreement of the persons between which there were correspondence and telegraph messages. Otherwise, the personal correspondence and personal telegraph messages of these persons shall be announced and studied upon closed proceeding. Mentioned rules shall be applied also upon study of photo- and cine documents, sound- and video records, information on electronic carriers containing details of personal character.
4. Persons participating in a case, and individuals attending upon opened proceeding shall have the right to fix the course of the proceeding in written or with the use of audio recording from the places taken by them in a premise where the proceeding is carried out. Cine- and photo survey, video recording, radio, television and internet broadcast in the course of proceeding shall be allowed under permission of a court, body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions, considering the opinions of the persons participating in the case. These actions shall not impede normal course of proceeding and may be restricted in time.

Section 30. Original section/article: 22. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Safety ensuring in the course of proceeding
Proceeding on the cases on administrative infractions shall be conducted in conditions ensuring normal work of a court, body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions, and security of participants of the proceeding. For the purpose of safety ensuring, the judge, civil servant may give an order to conduct inspection of the persons willing to attend upon the proceeding on case, including inspection of documents certifying their identity, personal inspection and inspection of items of property carried by them.

Section 31. Original section/article: 23. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Freedom of contesting procedural decisions and appeal of procedural actions
1. Force of the body (civil servant) being authorized to draw up minutes on the cases on administrative infractions may be appealed, and the decisions of a court, body (civil servant) being authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions may be contested in the manner established by this Code.
2. Person participating in a case shall have the right to review the decrees on the cases on administrative infractions in the manner established by this Code.
3. Reversion of a claim to the damage of a person that filed the claim, or to the damage of the person in behalf of whom it was filed shall not be allowed.

Section 32. Original section/article: 24. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Judicial protection of rights, freedoms and legal interests of a person
1. Everyone shall have the right to judicial protection of own rights and freedoms. Interested person shall have the right to go in court for protection of violated or contested rights, freedoms or interests protected by the Law.
2. Prosecutor shall have the right to refer to the court with a suit (application) for the purpose of carrying out of obligations imposed on him (her) and for protection of the rights of individuals, organizations, public and state interests.
3. The court jurisdiction provided by the Law may be changed for no one, without his (her) agreement.
4. Court shall be obliged to explain the right provided by part five of

Section 33. Original section/article: 683. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code to a legal representative of the person in respect of whom the proceeding on the case on administrative infraction is conducted or injured party being minors or those deprived of a possibility to exercise own rights according to own physical or mental condition.

Section 34. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION AND ADMINISTRATIVE
LIABILITY
GENERAL PART
Chapter 3. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION

Section 35. Original section/article: 25. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative infraction
1. Administrative infraction shall be recognized as an illegal, guilty (intentional or careless) action or omission of an individual or illegal action or omission of a legal entity for which this Code provides the administrative liability.
2. Administrative liability for infractions provided by Articles of the Special part of this Code shall occur if these infractions upon own character do not entail criminal liability in accordance with the legislation.

Section 36. Original section/article: 26. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Commission of administrative infraction intentionally
Administrative infraction shall be recognized committed intentionally, if the individual that committed it realized illegal character of own action (omission), foresaw its harmful consequences and wished or admitted consciously occurrence of these circumstances or referred to them indifferently.

Section 37. Original section/article: 27. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Commission of administrative infraction carelessly
Administrative infraction shall be recognized committed carelessly, if the individual that committed it foresaw a possibility of occurrence of harmful consequences of own action (omission), but relied lightmindedly on their prevention without sufficient grounds or did not foresee the possibility of occurrence of such consequences, however upon proper attention and foresight should and could foresee them.
Chapter 4. ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY

Section 38. Original section/article: 28. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Persons subjected to administrative liability
They are shall be subject to administrative liability:
1) mentally competent individual that up to the date of completion or suppression of an administrative infraction attained sixteen years;
2) legal entity.

Section 39. Original section/article: 29. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Legal insanity
Individual that during commission of illegal action provided by this Code was in a condition of insanity, in other words could not realize actual character and danger of own actions (omission) or manage by them due to chronicle mental disease, temporary mental disorder, feeblemindedness or other diseased mental state shall not be subject to administrative liability.

Section 40. Original section/article: 30. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative liability of civil servants
Civil servant shall be brought to administrative liability upon condition of commission of administrative infraction due to non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the official obligations. In the absence of this circumstance, the civil servant being guilty in commission of administrative infraction shall be subject to liability on a common basis.
Note. Civil servants in this Code shall be recognized as persons that carrying out or carried out the functions of a public officer permanently, temporary or on a special power up to the date of commission of administrative infraction or performing or performed organizational management or administrative economic functions in the state institutions, subjects of quasi-public sector, bodies of local self-government up to the date of commission of administrative infraction.

Section 41. Original section/article: 31. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Peculiarities of administrative liability upon fixation of an offense with certified special control and measuring technical means and devices
Footnote. Title of

Section 42. Original section/article: 31. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. When an administrative offence is recorded by certified special control and measuring technical means and devices operating in automatic mode, the owners (holders) of the vehicles shall be held administratively liable for administrative offences in transport and in the road sector.
2. Possessor (owner) of a transport vehicle shall be released from administrative liability for infractions committed with participation of this transport vehicle, if in the course of inspection upon his (her) message or application the person in possession of which it was at the moment of fixation of the infraction is established or it was withdrawn in a result of illegal actions of other persons.
Note.
In the articles of this Code, owners of vehicles shall be individuals and legal entities who own a vehicle, as well as individuals and legal entities to whom vehicles belonging to individuals and legal entities have been transferred for temporary possession and use.
In the articles of this Code, certified special control and measuring technical means and devices shall be understood to mean technical means and devices for monitoring and recording offences that have undergone metrological verification, photo and video equipment that record the fact and time of the offence, type, brand, state registration number plate, as well as the speed and direction of movement of the vehicle, weight and (or) overall dimensions, axle loads.
Footnote.

Section 43. Original section/article: 31. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 44. Original section/article: 32. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative liability of a military servant, prosecutor and other persons to which the force of disciplinary charters or special provisions is applied for commission of administrative infractions by them
1. Military servants and persons, liable for military service, being at military trainings shall bear liability for administrative offenses, committed in the performance of their official duties, on disciplinary charters, except for the cases, provided by Articles 651, 652, 667, 676, 677, 680, 681 of this Code. Servants of special state and law enforcement bodies shall bear liability for administrative offences, committed in the performance of official duties in accordance with regulatory legal acts, regulating the procedure for passing service in the relevant bodies.
2. Persons referred to in part one of this Article shall bear administrative responsibility on general grounds for violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on languages, the regime of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the regime at checkpoints on the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state secrets, sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, fire safety requirements, traffic rules, customs rules outside the duty station, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accounting and financial reporting, budget and tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement, rules of hunting, fishing, requirements of environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, norms of rational use and protection of natural resources. These persons may not be subjected to administrative penalties in the form of deprivation of the right to carry and keep firearms and cold weapons, community service or administrative detention.
3. Administrative sanction in the form of administrative fine may not be applied to military servants doing active military service, and cadets of military and special educational institutions.
4. Bodies (civil servants) provided by the right to impose administrative sanctions instead of imposing administrative sanctions to the persons mentioned in parts one and three of this Article shall transfer materials on infractions to the relevant bodies for resolution of the issue on bringing guilty persons to disciplinary liability.
Footnote.

Section 45. Original section/article: 32. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 11.18.2015 № 411-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26. 12. 2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see Art. 2 for the procedure of enactment).

Section 46. Original section/article: 33. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative liability of private notaries, private bailiffs, advocates, legal counsellors, individual entrepreneurs and legal entities
Footnote. The heading of

Section 47. Original section/article: 33. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Private notaries, private bailiffs, lawyers, legal consultants, individual entrepreneurs and legal entities shall be subject to administrative liability for an administrative offence in cases envisaged by the Special Part of this Section.
2. Individual entrepreneur and legal entities shall be subject to administrative liability for administrative infraction, if the act (action or omission) provided by the Special part of this section was committed, sanctioned, approved by the body, person carrying out the management functions of individual entrepreneur or legal entity performing organizational and management or administrative and economic functions.
3.The structural subdivisions of a legal entity, that have committed administrative violations and being independent taxpayers (except for financial organizations) shall bear an administrative liability as legal entities.
4. Bringing of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities to administrative liability shall release a worker of the individual entrepreneur and legal entity from administrative infraction for such infraction.
Note. For the purposes of this Code, individual entrepreneurs and legal entities shall bear an administrative liability as subjects of entrepreneurship.
Footnote.

Section 48. Original section/article: 33. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the RK Law dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 49. Original section/article: 34. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative liability of foreign persons, foreign legal entities and stateless persons
1. Foreign persons, foreign legal entities, their branches and representatives and stateless persons that committed administrative infractions in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be subject to administrative liability on common basis.
2. Structural subdivisions (branches and representatives) of foreign and international non-profit non-governmental associations shall bear administrative liability for the breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public associations as legal entities.
3. The issue on administrative liability for administrative infractions committed in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan by diplomatic representatives of foreign states and other foreign persons that enjoy immunities shall be resolved in accordance with the rules of international law.
Chapter 5. CIRCUMSTANCES EXCLUDING ADMINISTRATIVE
LIABILITY

Section 50. Original section/article: 35. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Necessary defence
1. Commission of act provided by this Code in a condition of necessary defence, i.e. upon defence of a person, dwelling place, property, land field and other rights of defender or other persons, interests of a society of the state protected by the Law from illegal offences by infliction of harm to offender, if there are no exceeding limits of necessary defence, shall not be administrative infraction.
2. All the persons shall have the right to necessary defence in equal measure independent from their professional or other special training and service position. This right shall belong to a person independent from a possibility to avoid illegal offence or request assistance from other persons or state bodies.
3. Exceeding limits of necessary defence shall be recognized as obvious non-conformance of defence to character and level of hazard of the offence, in a result of which the obviously excessive harm not caused by a situation is inflicted to offender. Such excess shall entail administrative liability only in cases of intended infliction of the harm.
4. The persons that exceeded the limits of necessary defence due to fear, fright or confusion caused by illegal offence shall not be subject to administrative liability.

Section 51. Original section/article: 36. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Detention of a person that committed offence
1. Commission of act provided by this Code upon detention of a person that committed illegal offence for bringing of this person to the state bodies and suppression of a possibility of committing new offences by him (her) shall not be recognized as administrative infraction, if there are no other opportunities to detain such person by other means and if there are no exceeding limits required for these measures.
2. Exceeding measures required for detention of a person that committed offence shall be recognized as their obvious non-conformance to character and level of hazard of the offence committed by the detained person and to circumstances of detention, when the obviously exceeding harm not caused by situation is inflicted in respect of the persons without necessity. Such exceeding shall entail administrative liability only in cases of intentional infliction of harm.
3. Injured parties and other individuals shall have the right to detain a person that committed offence, together with the specially authorized persons.

Section 52. Original section/article: 37. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Extreme necessity
1. Infliction of harm to interests protected by this Code in a condition of extreme necessity, i.e. for elimination of hazard threatening directly to life, health, rights and legal interests of such person or other persons, interests of a society or the state, if this hazard might not be eliminated by other means and by this if there are no exceeding limits of extreme necessity shall not be recognized as administrative infraction.
2. Exceeding limits of extreme necessity shall be recognized as infliction of harm obviously not conformed to character and level of threatened danger and situation, in which the danger was eliminated when the harm equally or more essential that eliminated was inflicted to the interests protected by the Law. Such exceeding shall entail liability only in cases of intentional infliction of harm.

Section 53. Original section/article: 38. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Physical or psychic compulsion
1. Commission of the act provided by this Code in a result of physical or psychic compulsion, if due to such compulsion the person might not manage own actions (omission) shall not be recognized as administrative infraction.
2. Issue on administrative liability for infliction of the harm to interests protected by the Code in a result of psychic compulsion, as well as in a result of physical compulsion due to which the person preserved a possibility to manage own actions, shall be resolved in consideration of provisions of

Section 54. Original section/article: 39. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of an order or regulation
1. Commission of the act provided by this Code by a person that acted for executing compulsory order or regulation shall not be recognized as administrative infraction. The person that gave illegal order or regulation shall bear administrative liability for commission of such act.
2. Persons that committed intentional administrative infraction for execution of knowingly illegal order or regulation shall bear administrative liability on common basis. Non-execution of knowingly illegal order or regulation shall exclude the administrative liability.
Chapter 6. ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTION AND MEASURES OF
THE STATE LEGAL EFFECT

Section 55. Original section/article: 40. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Definition and purposes of administrative sanction
1. Administrative sanction is a measure of the state enforcement applied by the judge, bodies (civil servants) authorized by the Law for commission of administrative infraction, and consists in deprivation or restriction of the rights and freedoms of a person that committed such infraction provided by this Code.
2. Administrative sanction shall be applied for the purpose of education of a person that committed infraction, in the spirit of compliance with requirements of the legislation and respect of a legal order, as well as prevention of committing new infractions as the offender himself (herself), so by other persons.
3. Administrative sanction shall not be aimed at infliction of physical suffers to a person that committed administrative infraction, or degrading his (her) human dignity, as well as infliction of the harm to business reputation of a legal entity.
4. Administrative sanction shall not be the means of compensation for the property damage. Harm inflicted by the administrative infraction shall be compensated in the manner provided by

Section 56. Original section/article: 41. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Types of administrative sanctions
1. The following administrative sanctions may be applied for commission of administrative infractions:
1) notification;
2) administrative fine;
3) confiscation of a subject being a tool or subject of committing administrative infraction, and equally the property received due to commission of the administrative infraction;
4) deprivation of a special right;
5) deprivation of permission or suspension of its validity, as well as exclusion from register;
6) suspension or prohibition of the activity;
7) compulsory demolition of the built structure or the structure under construction on illegal basis;
7-1) community service;
8) administrative arrest;
9) administrative expulsion of a foreign person or stateless person beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. For commisrepeatedly second time second timesion of administrative infractions to the legal entities, the administrative sanctions listed in subparagraphs 1) – 5) and 7) of a part one of this Article, as well as suspension or prohibition of activity or separate types of activity of a legal entity may be applied.
Footnote.

Section 57. Original section/article: 41. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect on 01.09.2025).

Section 58. Original section/article: 42. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Main and additional measures of administrative sanctions
1. Warning, administrative fine, administrative arrest, community service may be applied only as basic administrative penalties.
2. Deprivation of a special right, deprivation of permission or suspension of its validity, as well as exclusion from register, suspension or prohibition of the activity or its separate types, as well as administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be applied as main, so additional administrative sanctions.
3. Confiscation, compulsory demolition of the built structure or the structure under construction on illegal basis may be applied only as additional administrative sanction.
Footnote.

Section 59. Original section/article: 42. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced since 01.09.2025).

Section 60. Original section/article: 43. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Notification
1. Notification shall be in an official giving by the court, a body (official) authorized to impose an administrative penalty, a negative evaluation of the committed offense and notification of an individual or legal entity about the inadmissibility of illegal conduct. Notification shall be given in written form.
2. In the absence of circumstances stipulated in

Section 61. Original section/article: 366. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the court (judge), the body (official), imposing an administrative sanction, shall be obliged to apply the notification, provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 62. Original section/article: 43. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 63. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative fine
1. Administrative fine (hereinafter – fine) is a money recovery imposed for administrative infraction in cases and limits provided in Articles of the Special part of this section, in amount being relevant to particular quantity of monthly calculation index established in accordance with the Law acting up to the date of initiation of a case on administrative infraction.
In cases provided in Articles of the Special part of this section, the amount of fine shall be expressed in percentage from:
1) rates of payment for negative impact on environment, as well as the amount of economic profit received as a result of violation of the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
1-1) the amount of damage, caused to subsoil resources as a result of violation of the right of state ownership of subsoil;
2) sum of non-fulfilled or fulfilled improperly tax obligation;
3) sum of unpaid (non-transferred), untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) social expenditures;
4) sum of non-transferred, untimely and (or) incompletely calculated, dedicated (accrued) and (or) paid (transferred) compulsory pension contributions and compulsory professional pension contributions;
5) sum of a cost of sub-excise goods received in a result of illegal entrepreneurship;
6) sum being unaccounted in accordance with requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial reporting or properly accounted;
7) sum of a transaction (operation) consummated (conducted) with the violation of the financial legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) the sum of income (revenue), obtained as a result of monopolistic activities or violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry, natural monopolies, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, regulating the activity of financial market and financial organizations;
9) cost of energy resources used in excess of approved normative standards for the period in which the infraction is occurred, but no more than for one year;
10) sum of non-accepted national and foreign currency.
11) the sum of unpaid (non-transferred), untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance;
12) the amounts of unpaid customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties;
13) the amounts of cash and (or) the value of monetary instruments that were not declared or were falsely declared when moving across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Note! 
The second indent of Part 1 shall be supplemented with sub-paragraph 14) under Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect on 01.01.2027). 
If in provided Articles of the Special part of this section, the amount of fine is expressed in percentage from a sum of operation conducted with violation of the rules of financial legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and such operation is conducted in a foreign currency, the recount of a sum of fine in tenge shall be carried out according to official exchange rate established by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan up to the date of drawing up a protocol on administrative infraction.
2. The amount of fine imposed on an individual cannot exceed two hundred monthly calculation indices.
The amount of a fine imposed on an official, private notary, private bailiff, lawyer, legal consultant, small businesses, and non-profit organisations may not exceed seven hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Amount of fine imposed on subjects of medium entrepreneurship may not exceed one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Amount of fine imposed on subjects of large entrepreneurship may not exceed two thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Fine calculated in accordance with item two of a part one of this Article may be established in amounts exceeding or less than established amounts of fines mentioned in part two of this Article.
This edition of paragraph 4 shall be enforced from 01.01.2018 for the towns of regional significance, villages, rural districts with a population of more than two thousand people in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 90-VI (current version before 01.01.2020 for the towns of regional significance, villages, rural districts with a population of two thousand or less people, see the archival version dated 28.12.2017 of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative violations dated 05. 07. 2014 № 235-V). 
4. The fine shall be collected to the income of state budget in accordance with the procedure, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 64. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 271-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.07.2017); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 11.07.2017 № 90-VI (for the procedure of enforcement see subparagraph1) of paragraph 1 of

Section 65. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 66. Original section/article: 45. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Confiscation of a subject being a tool or subject of committing administrative infraction, as well as property received due to commission of administrative infraction
1. Confiscation of a subject being a tool or subject of committing administrative infraction, as well as property received due to commission of administrative infraction consists in their compulsory non-repayable conversion into the ownership of the state in the manner established by the legislation.
Withdrawal of s subject subjected to return to the owner from illegal possession of a person that committed administrative infraction or withdrawn from turnover shall not be recognized as confiscation. Subject withdrawn from the turnover shall be subject to conversion into the ownership of the state or destruction.
2. Only the subject being a property of a violator shall be subject to confiscation, unless otherwise provided by the Special part of this Code.
3. Confiscation of hunting weapon, ammunition to it and other permitted hunting and fishing tools may not be applied to persons for which the hunting (fishery) is a main legal source of living.
4. Confiscation shall be applied by a judge and may be imposed in cases when it is provided by the relevant Article of the Special part of this section as the administrative sanction.

Section 67. Original section/article: 46. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Deprivation of a special right
1. Deprivation of a special right provided to particular person shall be applied by a judge.
2. Term of deprivation of a special right may not be less than one month and more than two years.
3. The term for deprivation of the right to operate transport vehicles may not be less than six months and more than ten years.
4. Deprivation of the right to drive transport vehicles may not be applied to persons, who use these vehicles due to disability, except for the cases of driving in a state of intoxication or evasion from passing of examination for intoxication in the established manner, as well as leaving a scene of a traffic accident by mentioned persons in violation of established rules, of which they were participants.
5. Deprivation of the right of hunting, fishing, keeping and bearing hunting weapon, ammunition to it and fish-tackles may not be applied to persons for whom the hunting (fishery) is a main legal source of living, with the exception of systematic violation of the order of using this right.
Footnote.

Section 68. Original section/article: 46. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 83-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 69. Original section/article: 47. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Deprivation of permission or suspension of its validity, as well as exclusion from register
1. Deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity shall be applied for an administrative offense, committed upon carrying out activities or committing certain actions (operations) provided in a permit.
1-1. Revocation or suspension of a permit shall be imposed by the judge, authorized body (official) taking into account the provisions of parts three, four, six and 6-1 of this Article.
2. The period for suspension of a permit may not be less than one and more than six months.
3. Suspension or revocation of permit to carry out activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, except for revocation of the credit bureau's permit, shall be carried out by the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan within their competence on the grounds and in the manner established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. An exclusion from the register shall be carried out by the authorized body in the sphere of customs affairs on the grounds and in the manner, established by the customs legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and by the authorized body in the field of transport and communications on the grounds and in the manner, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on road traffic.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021). 
6. Exclusion from the register of collection agencies shall be carried out by the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the grounds and in accordance with the procedure established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On collection activity".
6-1. Exclusion from the register of payment institutions shall be carried out by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the grounds and in the manner established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems".
7. In case, that the activity, upon carrying out of which, an administrative offense is committed shall be a subspecies of the licensed type of activity, an administrative sanction in the form of deprivation or suspension of the permit shall be applied only to a specific sub-type of the licensed activity.
Note. For the purposes of this Code, under the deprivation of a permit, suspension of its activity means the deprivation of a license to carry out a licensed type of activity or its subspecies, a special permit, a qualification certificate, or suspension of its action on a certain type or subspecies of activity, or committing a specific action, as well as another permit document, provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Permits and Notifications".
Footnote.

Section 70. Original section/article: 47. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021).

Section 71. Original section/article: 48. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension or prohibition of activity or its separate types
1. Suspension or prohibition of activity or its separate types consists in temporary termination of the activity of prohibition of activity or its separate types of individuals and (or) legal entities, as well as branches, representatives, structural subdivisions of legal entities, production areas, as well as operation of aggregates, buildings and structures, carrying out of separate types of activity (work), rendering of services.
2. Suspension or prohibition of activity or its certain types shall be carried out in the judicial proceeding or by the authority (official) authorized to consider cases of administrative infractions, if for commission of administrative infraction it is possible to impose sanctions in the form of suspension or prohibition of the activity. Consideration of such cases shall be carried out within ten days.
3. Suspension of activity or its certain types shall be established for a term up to three months.
4. Before consideration of the case, the measure of ensuring in the form of suspension or prohibition of the activity or its certain types may be applied to an individual or legal entity in the manner provided by

Section 72. Original section/article: 801. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. In this case, the term of suspension or prohibition of the activity or its certain types shall be included into the term of suspension or prohibition of the activity or its certain types if this measure of administrative sanction will be applied upon consideration of the case.
Footnote.

Section 73. Original section/article: 48. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 74. Original section/article: 49. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compulsory demolition of the built structure or the structure under construction on illegal basis
Compulsory demolition of the built structure or the structure under construction on illegal basis shall be imposed by a judge in cases provided by Articles of the Special part of this section.

Section 75. Original section/article: 49-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Community service
1. Community service shall be imposed by a court with respect to natural persons.
2. Community service shall be imposed by a court in the presence of consent of an individual who has committed an administrative offence.
3. Community service shall include the performance by a person brought to administrative responsibility, not requiring certain qualifications, of free of charge socially useful work, organised by local executive bodies in public places located at the place of his/her residence. 
4. Community service shall be calculated in hours and shall be imposed for a period of ten to one hundred hours. 
Community service shall be performed not less than one hour and not more than four hours per day.
Community service shall be performed in the time free from work and study.
5. Persons who do not have a permanent place of work and do not study in educational institutions shall perform community service for not less than one hour and not more than eight hours per day, but not more than forty hours per week.
6. The total duration of community service shall not exceed four months.
7. Community service shall not be applied in respect of:
1) pregnant women;
2) women with small children under the age of three years;
3) men bringing up alone small children under the age of three years;
4) persons who have not reached the age of eighteen years;
5) persons with a disability of the first or second group;
6) women aged fifty-eight and over;
7) men aged sixty-three and over;
8) foreign citizens and stateless persons not permanently residing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8. Should circumstances envisaged in part seven of this Article arise while performing community service, the court shall release such person from performing community service on the petition of local executive bodies.
Footnote. Chapter 6 is supplemented by

Section 76. Original section/article: 49-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in conformity with Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective since 01.09.2025).

Section 77. Original section/article: 49-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Evasion from community service 
A person shall be recognised as an evader from performing community service:
1) who fails to appear at the summons of the local executive body to execute the court order on assignment of community service without valid reasons;
2) who refused to start performing community service;
3) who failed to come to the organisation more than twice within the period of performing community service without valid reasons;
4) who arrived to perform community service, appeared and (or) was in the period of community service in a state of alcoholic, narcotic or toxicomaniacal intoxication, confirmed by medical examination in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) who left the Republic of Kazakhstan without valid reasons.
Note. A valid reason for the offender's failure to appear for community service on the scheduled date shall be illness and other documented circumstances that deprive the offender of the opportunity to arrive in time to perform community service.
Footnote. Chapter 6 is supplemented by

Section 78. Original section/article: 49-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
under Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect since 01.09.2025).

Section 79. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative arrest
1. Administrative arrest shall be established for a period of up to thirty days, and for violation of the requirements of the regime of emergency or martial law - up to forty-five days. Administrative arrest shall be appointed by a judge in exceptional cases within the limits envisaged in the articles of the Special Part of this Section.
2. Administrative arrest may not be applied to pregnant women and women with children under the age of fourteen, persons under the age of eighteen, persons with disabilities of the first and second category, as well as women over the age of fifty-eight, men over sixty-three years and men raising children alone, who have not reached the age of fourteen.
3. Term of administrative detention shall be included into the term of administrative arrest.
Footnote.

Section 80. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 81. Original section/article: 51. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be applied by a judge as a measure of administrative sanction in the manner and on the grounds that are provided by the Special part of this Code.
Provisions of this part shall not apply to the cases of expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons carried out in the manner provided by the civil procedural legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In case if in the course of administrative proceeding, the person in respect of whom the measure of administrative sanction in the form of administrative expulsion beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be applied, informs on committed act in respect of him (her) recognized as grave or especially grave crime in accordance with the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the consideration of a case on administrative infraction in respect of this person shall be postponed until making decision on a message or application I the manner established by

Section 82. Original section/article: 179. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Criminal procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 83. Original section/article: 52. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Measures of administrative and legal influence
1. The following measures of administrative legal influence shall be applied to the person that committed administrative infraction for the purpose of prevention of committing new infractions in accordance with this Code:
1) inspection of knowledge of traffic rules;
2) establishment of special requirements to behavior of an offender;
3) testing knowledge of the rules for civil and service weapon safe handling.
2. Measures of administrative and legal influence mentioned in part one of this Article shall be applied together with imposition of administrative sanction, so instead of it upon exemption a person committed administrative infraction from administrative responsibility on the ground provided by Articles 64, 64-1 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 84. Original section/article: 52. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 85. Original section/article: 53. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Testing the knowledge of traffic rules
1. Drivers of vehicles, committed infractions, provided by Articles 594 (part four), 596 (part four), 598 (part three), 599 (part two), 600 (part two) of this Code shall be sent for testing the knowledge of traffic rules.
2. The resolution on direction for testing the knowledge of traffic rules shall be issued by the bodies (officials), authorized to review cases of administrative offenses, provided by mentioned Articles of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 86. Original section/article: 53. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 87. Original section/article: 53-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Testing knowledge of the rules for civil and service weapons safe handling 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 88. Original section/article: 53-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
Owners and users of civil and service weapons who have committed offenses provided for in part one of

Section 89. Original section/article: 486. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code are sent to take an exam to test knowledge of the rules for safe handling of civil and service weapons.
The resolution on direction for testing knowledge of the rules for civil and service weapons safe handling shall be carried out by agencies (officials), authorized to review cases of administrative offences provided by mentioned Articles of this Code.
Footnote. The Code is supplemented by

Section 90. Original section/article: 53-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22. 12. 2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 91. Original section/article: 54. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Establishment of special requirements to behavior of an offender
1. When considering a case of an administrative offense by a court on its own initiative or at the request of the police or other participants in the proceedings on an administrative offense, special requirements may be established for the behavior of a person who has committed an administrative offense, provided for in Articles 73, 127, 128, 131, 434 , 435, 440 (part three), 442 (part three), 448, 461, 482, 485 (part two) of this Code for a period from three months to one year, providing for a full or separate ban on:
1) seek, prosecute, visit the victim, conduct oral, telephone negotiations and come into contacts with him (her) by other methods, including minors and (or) disabled members of his (her) family, against the will of the victim;
2) acquire, store, carry and use firearms and other types of weapons;
3) to minors visit certain places, travel to other areas without the permission of the commission on protection of the rights of minors;
4) use alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances.
2. When establishing special requirements for the behavior of a person who has committed an administrative offense in the field of family and domestic relations, for the defense and protection of the victim and members of his family, the court in exceptional cases has the right to apply for a period of up to thirty days a measure of administrative legal influence in the form of a ban on the person who committed domestic violence, to live in the same home with the victim.
2-1. When establishing special requirements for the behavior of a person who has committed an administrative offense in the field of family and domestic relations, the court has the right to establish measures to provide psychological assistance.
3. Within the validity term of special requirements to behavior of an offender, he (she) may be imposed by obligations to come to internal affairs bodies for a prophylactic conversation from one up to four times per month.
Footnote.

Section 92. Original section/article: 54. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 93. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 7. IMPOSITION OF ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTION

Section 94. Original section/article: 55. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Common rules of imposing a sanction for administrative infraction
1. Administrative sanction for administrative infraction shall be imposed within the limits provided in Article of the Special part of this section for this administrative infraction in a precise conformance to provisions of this Code.
2. Administrative sanction shall be fair, conforming to the character of an infraction, circumstances of its commission, personality of an offender.
3. Upon imposition of administrative sanction on an individual, the character of committed administrative infraction, personality of a guilty person, as well as his (her) behavior before and after commission of the infraction, material status, circumstances mitigating and aggravating liability shall be considered.
4. Upon imposition of administrative sanction on a legal entity, the character of administrative infraction, material status, circumstances mitigating and aggravating liability shall be considered.
5. Imposition of administrative sanction shall not release a person from fulfillment of the obligation, for non-fulfillment of which the mentioned sanction was imposed, elimination of committed violations and compensation for harm.
6. One main or main and supplementary administrative sanction may be imposed for one administrative infraction.

Section 95. Original section/article: 56. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances mitigating liability for administrative infraction
1. Circumstances mitigating liability for administrative infraction shall be recognized as:
1) penitence of a guilty person;
2) prevention of harmful consequences of an infraction by a person that committed the administrative infraction, voluntary compensation for harm or elimination of inflicted harm;
3) commission of administrative infraction under the influence of intense emotional excitement or upon coincidence of grave personal or family circumstances;
4) commission of administrative infraction by a minor;
5) commission of administrative infraction by a pregnant woman or woman having a child at the age up to fourteen years;
6) commission of administrative infraction in a result of physical or psychic compulsion;
7) commission of administrative infraction upon violation of conditions of the legality of necessary defence, detention of a person that committed illegal offence, execution of an order or regulation;
8) commission of administrative infraction carelessly for the first time.
2. Court (judge), body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction may also recognize the circumstances not mentioned in a part one of this Article as mitigating.

Section 96. Original section/article: 57. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances aggravating liability for administrative infractions
Circumstances aggravating liability for administrative infractions shall be recognized as:
1) continuation of offending behavior in spite of explanation of the Law by a prosecutor and (or) requirement of the authorized persons to terminate it;
2) repeated commission of homogeneous administrative infraction within a year, for which the person was already subject to administrative sanction, within the period, provided for by

Section 97. Original section/article: 61. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) involvement of a minor in administrative infraction;
4) involvement of persons that knowingly for a guilty person suffer from severe mental disease, or the persons that did not attain the age of administrative liability in commission of administrative infraction;
5) commission of administrative infraction based on national, racial and religion hatred or enmity, based on revenge for legal actions of other persons, as well as for the purpose of hiding other infraction or simplify its commission;
6) commission of administrative infraction in respect of a person or his (her) close relatives due to performance of official, professional or public duty by this person;
7) commission of administrative infraction in respect of a woman being pregnant knowingly for a guilty person, as well as in respect of an infant, other defenceless or helpless person or a person being in dependence from the guilty person;
8) commission of administrative infraction by group of persons;
9) committing an administrative offence in conditions of natural disaster, state of emergency or martial law or other extraordinary circumstances;
10) commission of administrative infraction in a condition of alcohol, drug or substance abuse intoxication. Court (judge), body (civil servant) imposing the administrative sanction may not to recognize this circumstance as aggravating depending on a character of administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 98. Original section/article: 57. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be implemented sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 99. Original section/article: 58. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Imposition of administrative sanctions upon commission of several administrative infractions
1. Upon commission of two or more administrative infractions by one person, the administrative sanction shall be imposed for each infraction separately.
2. If the person committed several administrative infractions that are considered by one and the same judge, authorized authority (official), then in case of imposition of one and the same type of sanction on this person, the final size of the sanction may not exceed three-stage maximum limit established by this Code for this type of sanction, and the administrative arrest may not exceed the term established by part one of

Section 100. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code and for deprivation of a special right - the terms established by parts two and three of

Section 101. Original section/article: 46. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3.In case that administrative fines are expressed in percentage, when imposing them for committing several administrative offenses, the fine shall be charged for each administrative offense separately.
Footnote.

Section 102. Original section/article: 58. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 103. Original section/article: 59. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compensation for harm inflicted by administrative infraction
1. Judge upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction which inflicted the property damage, upon solution of the issue on imposition of administrative sanction shall recover the same damage at one time, if there is no dispute on its size.
Disputes on a size of property damage inflicted by administrative infraction shall be considered in the manner of civil proceeding.
2. Compensation of property damage on affairs on administrative infractions being considered by other authorized bodies (civil servants) in case of refusal of a guilty person from his (her) voluntary compensation shall be performed in the manner of civil proceeding.
3. Requirements on protection of business reputation or compensation for moral damage inflicted by administrative infraction shall be considered in the manner of civil proceeding on the grounds provided by the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 104. Original section/article: 60. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Calculation of terms of administrative sanction
Term of administrative arrest shall be calculated in days, and deprivations of a special right provided to an individual or legal entity, as well as deprivations of permission or suspension of its validity shall be calculated in years, months or calendar days.

Section 105. Original section/article: 61. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Term within which the person is considered as subjected to administrative sanction
A person who is a subject to an administrative sanction for an administrative infraction, shall be considered subjected to this sanction within one year from the date of termination the execution of the administrative sanction, and for administrative infractions in the field of environmental protection, committed by large-sized entities, – within three years.
Footnote.

Section 106. Original section/article: 61. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021). 
Chapter 8. RELEASE FROM ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY AND
DAMINISTRATIVE SANCTION

Section 107. Original section/article: 62. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release from administrative liability due to expiration of limitation period
1. A person shall not be subject to administrative liability after two months from the date of commission of an administrative offense, except in cases provided for by this Code.
Note! 
The effect of the first indent of para graph 2 of Art. 62 was suspended on 01.09.2025 by № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 and this paragraph shall be in force for the period of suspension in the following wording. 
2. An individual shall not be subject to administrative liability for unlawful interference of officials in entrepreneurial activity, committing an administrative corruption offence, as well as offences in the field of conducting inspections of business entities, environmental protection, protection of competition, breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on energy saving and energy efficiency, on state secrets, natural monopolies, subsoil and subsoil use, the procedure for organising and holding peaceful assemblies, personal data and their protection, on electronic document and electronic digital signature after one year from the date of committing an administrative offence, but may not be held administratively liable after two months from the date of reveal of the administrative offence.
A legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur) shall not be subject to administrative liability for infringement of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on personal data and their protection, on electronic document and electronic digital signature after one year from the date of committing an administrative offence, but may not be held administratively liable after two months from the date of finding an administrative offence.
A legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur) shall not be subject to administrative liability for violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on energy saving and energy efficiency, on subsoil and subsoil use, the procedure for organising and holding peaceful assemblies, in the field of environmental protection, as well as for infringement of procedures for conformity assessment of objects of technical regulation upon expiry of three years from the date of commission of an administrative offence, but may not be held administratively liable upon expiry of two months from the date of establishment of an administrative offence.
A legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur) shall not be subject to administrative liability for committing an administrative corruption offence, breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on natural monopolies, protection of competition after five years from the date of committing an administrative offence, but may not be brought to administrative liability after two months from the date of reveal of an administrative offence.
2-1. A natural person shall not be subject to bringing to administrative responsibility for committing an offence in the field of taxation, pension provision, compulsory social insurance, compulsory social medical insurance, customs affairs after one year from the date of its commission.
If other not established by this Article, a legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur) shall not be subject to bringing to administrative responsibility for offences in the field of taxation, in the field of customs affairs upon expiration of three years from the date of committing an offence.
A legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur), for which the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and Other Obligatory Payments to the Budget” (Tax Code), the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Customs Regulation in the Republic of Kazakhstan” establishes a limitation period of five years, shall not be brought to administrative responsibility respectively for offences in the field of taxation, customs affairs - upon expiry of five years from the date of committing the offence.
A legal entity (including an individual entrepreneur) shall not be liable to administrative liability for offences in the field of pension provision, compulsory social insurance, compulsory social health insurance after the expiration of five years from the date of commission of the offence.
3. Upon continuing administrative infraction, as well as upon commission of the administrative infraction in the field of budget relations infringing interests of society and the state protected by the Law, the person shall not be subjected to bringing to administrative liability upon expiry of two months from the date of detection of the administrative infraction.
When committing an administrative offense in the field of finance, when restoring solvency, rehabilitation and bankruptcy, a person is subject to administrative responsibility no later than three years from the date of committing an administrative offense, but cannot be brought to administrative responsibility after two months from the date of detection of an administrative offense 
For the commission of an operation with money and (or) other property that entailed the legalization (laundering) of proceeds from crime, a legal entity is subject to administrative liability no later than three years from the date of the commission of an administrative offense.
4. Provisions of parts one and three of this Article shall not apply to the cases when the administrative infraction promotes committing criminal infraction and it becomes known in the course of investigation or judicial consideration of the criminal case. In the manner provided by a part one of

Section 108. Original section/article: 405. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Criminal Procedural Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the court shall have the right to impose administrative sanction on a person being guilty in such infraction, if from the date of commission of administrative infraction no more than one year has passed.
5. The period of imposition of an administrative penalty for an administrative offence shall be interrupted from the moment of assignment of an expert examination, for the period of consideration of acts of prosecutor's supervision and response, issuance of a ruling on bringing a person in respect of whom proceedings on the case are being conducted, as well as referral of the case to a court or an official of a public body authorised to consider cases on administrative offences, as well as in cases of force majeure preventing its further proceedings.
Calculation of these terms shall be resumed from the moment of receipt of the results of the expert examination, from the day of taking a decision on the act of prosecutor's supervision and response, as well as the actual delivery of the person brought to administrative responsibility, to the body (to the official) executing the decision on bringing, as well as the end of force majeure.
6. In case of termination of a criminal case in existence of signs of administrative infraction in actions of an offender, the person may be brought to administrative liability no later than three months from the date of receipt of decision on its termination.
7. Running of the term of imposing a sanction for administrative infraction shall be interrupted, if until expiration of the terms mentioned in parts one and three of this Article the person commits new administrative infraction. Calculation of the term in these cases shall begin from the date of detection of new administrative infraction.
8. A ruling of a judge or a competent authority on termination of administrative proceedings, regardless of the term prescribed in paragraph one of this Article, may be reviewed upon a proposal of the chairperson of the cassation court, a protest of a prosecutor filed within one year from the date of its entry into legal force.
Note.
1. A continuing administrative offence shall be an administrative offence, which is characterized by continuous implementation of a single corpus delicti of a certain act envisaged by an article of the Special Part of this Section and is not completed by the time of its detection.
2. Force majeure preventing further proceedings in the case shall be deemed to mean extraordinary and unavoidable circumstances under the given conditions (natural phenomena, military actions, state of emergency, etc).
Footnote.

Section 109. Original section/article: 62. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 20.03.2021 № 21-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 132-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see Art. 2 for the enactment procedure).

Section 110. Original section/article: 63. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release from administrative liability and administrative sanction based on amnesty act
1. Person that committed administrative infraction may be released from administrative liability or imposed administrative sanction on the basis of amnesty act, if this act removes applying of the administrative sanction.
2. Amnesty act shall be issued by the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan in respect of individually indefinite range of persons.

Section 111. Original section/article: 64. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release from administrative liability due to conciliation of parties
1. Cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 73-3, 79 (part one), 127-2,146, 185, 186, 190 (parts five and six), 220, 229 (part two) of this Code are initiated only by application of the victim and are subject to termination upon reconciliation with the person who committed the administrative offense.
1-1. Persons who have committed administrative offenses for the first time under Articles 73 and 73-3 of this Code may be released by the court from administrative liability if they have reconciled with victims and applicants, including through mediation, and have made amends for the harm caused.
The provisions of this part do not apply to persons released from administrative liability during the year in connection with the reconciliation of the parties under

Section 112. Original section/article: 73. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. Conciliation shall be carried out on the basis of written agreement signed by an injured party and the person that committed administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 113. Original section/article: 64. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 114. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 115. Original section/article: 64-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Exemption from an administrative liability for minor offenses
At insignificance of the committed administrative offense, a judge, body (official), authorized to examine cases of administrative offenses, may exempt the person, who committed an administrative offense from an administrative liability, limiting with an oral observation.
Note. When deciding whether to exempt a person from an administrative liability under the basis, specified in this Article, the specific circumstances of committing an administrative offense, including the identity of the offender, as well as the object of infringement, shall be taken into account, and in the presence of harm, its size.
Footnote. Chapter 8 is supplemented with

Section 116. Original section/article: 64-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 9. ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY OF MINORS

Section 117. Original section/article: 65. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative liability of minors
1. Minors to which the force of this chapter is applied shall be recognized as the persons that at the time of commission of administrative infraction attained sixteen years, but did not attain eighteen years.
2. Administrative sanction with application of the measures of educational influence may be imposed on a minor that committed administrative infraction.

Section 118. Original section/article: 66. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Special aspects of applying administrative sanctions to minors
1. Size of administrative fine imposed on a minor may not exceed ten monthly calculation indices independently from size of the fine provided by Article of the Special part of this section.
In the absence of property of the minor being sufficient for payment of the fine, the fine shall be imposed on parents or persons substituting them.
2. Deprivation of a special right may be imposed on minors for the term no more than one year.
3. Other types of administrative penalties (excluding administrative detention and community service), as well as measures of administrative and legal influence, specified in Articles 41 and 52 of this Code, shall be applied to minors on general grounds.
Footnote.

Section 119. Original section/article: 66. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced since 01.09.2025).

Section 120. Original section/article: 67. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Imposition of administrative sanction on a minor
1. Upon imposition of administrative sanction on a minor, except for the circumstances provided by Articles 56 and 57 of this Code, his (her) living conditions, level of mental development, other special aspects of a personality, as well as influence of elder persons on him (her) shall be considered.
2. Minority age as a mitigating circumstance shall be considered in case of accumulation with other mitigating and aggravating circumstances.

Section 121. Original section/article: 68. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release of minors from administrative liability and administrative sanction
Minor that for the first time committed administrative infracti8on may be released by a court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions from administrative liability or from fulfillment of imposed administrative sanction with applying of measures of educational influence provided by the legislation.

Section 122. Original section/article: 69. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Measures of educational influence
1. The following measures of educational influence may be imposed to a minor:
1) explanation of the Law;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) imposition of the obligation to make up inflicted losses;
4) restriction of leisure time and establishment of special requirements to behavior of a minor.
2. Several measures of educational influence may be imposed simultaneously on a minor.
3. The period of application of the measure of educational influence provided by subparagraph 4) of part one of this Article shall be established for a period of three to six months.
4. In case of systematic non-fulfillment of measures of educational influence provided by subparagraph 4) of part one of this Article by minors, the bodies of internal affairs shall submit materials to the court for solution the issue of cancellation this measure and bringing the minor to an administrative liability, if the period of limitation, established by part one of

Section 123. Original section/article: 890. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is not expired.
Footnote.

Section 124. Original section/article: 69. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 125. Original section/article: 70. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Content of measures of educational influence
1. Explanation of the Law consists of explanation of harm to a minor that inflicted by his (her) act, and legal consequences of repeated commission of infractions provided by this Code.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. Obligation to make up inflicted losses shall be imposed in consideration of material status of a minor and existence of the relevant work skills.
4. Restriction of a leisure time and establishment of special requirements to behavior of a minor may provide a prohibition of visiting particular places, used of particular forms of the leisure time, as well as linked with operating a transport vehicle, restriction of staying outside home after particular time of day, departure to other locations without permission of court or body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions. In respect of a minor, the special requirements to behavior of an offender provided by

Section 126. Original section/article: 54. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code may be established, as well as requirement to complete education or to obtain employment with help of the commission on protection of the rights of minors may be specified.
Footnote.

Section 127. Original section/article: 70. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 128. Original section/article: 71. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Limitation periods
Limitation periods provided by

Section 129. Original section/article: 62. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, upon release of minors from administrative liability or fulfillment of administrative sanction shall be reduced by half.

Section 130. Original section/article: 72. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Term within which the minors is considered as subjected to administrative sanction
Minor on which the administrative sanction is imposed for administrative infraction shall be considered as subjected to this sanction within six months from the date of completion of execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction.
SPECIAL PART
Chapter 10. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS INFRINGING ON
PERSONAL RIGHTS

Section 131. Original section/article: 73. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal actions in the scope of family relations
1. Obscene language, offensive harassment, humiliation, damage to household items and other actions expressing disrespect for persons in family and household relationships with the offender, disturbing their peace, committed in the home, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offense, –
shall entail a warning or community service for a period of twenty hours or administrative detention for five days.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall, –
shall entail community service for a period of forty hours or administrative detention for ten days.
3. The actions provided by a part two of this Article, committed by persons to whom the administrative arrest in accordance with a part two of

Section 132. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is not applied shall, –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
Note. Family relations for the purposes of this Code shall be understood as relations between spouses, former spouses, persons residing or that resided jointly, close relatives, persons having common child (children).
Footnote.

Section 133. Original section/article: 73. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 134. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect on 01.09.2025).

Section 135. Original section/article: 73-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Intentional infliction of slight damage to health
Footnote.

Section 136. Original section/article: 73-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 137. Original section/article: 73-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 138. Original section/article: 73-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Libel 
1. Libel, that is the dissemination of knowingly false information that discredits the honor and dignity of another person or undermines his reputation, shall –
entail a fine on an individual in the amount of one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of fifteen days, on an official - a fine in the amount of five hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of twenty days.
2. The same act committed in public or with the use of mass media or telecommunication networks, -
entail a fine on an individual in the amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of twenty days, on an official - a fine in the amount of six hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of twenty-five days.
3. Acts provided for by parts 1 or 2 of this article, connected with the accusation of a person of committing a corruption, grave or especially grave crime, shall –
entail a fine on an individual in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a term of twenty-five days, on an official - a fine in the amount of seven hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a term of thirty days.
Footnote. Chapter 10 was supplemented with

Section 139. Original section/article: 73-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 №95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 140. Original section/article: 74. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding to obtainment of a citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal actions (omission) of civil servants impeding obtainment of a citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a person, shall, –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article that committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 141. Original section/article: 74. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 142. Original section/article: 75. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Liability for breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on languages
1. Refusal of a civil servant in acceptance of documents, references of individuals and legal entities, as well as their non-consideration in essence, reasoned by lack of knowledge of a language –
entail a notification or a penalty in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of requirements on placing requisites and visual information shall, –
entail a notification.
4. The action provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices.
5. Restriction of rights of individuals in a choice of a language, discrimination on language sings shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
6. The actions provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 143. Original section/article: 75. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 144. Original section/article: 76. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Restriction of the right to free movement and choice of a residence place
1.An action (inaction) of officials, restricting the right of individuals to freedom of movement and choice of a residence place (with the exception of border zones, forbidden zones at arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan at arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan and separate locations in which restrictions may be imposed by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this action (inaction) does not contain signs of a criminal offense shall, –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. An action (inaction), provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall, –
entail a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 145. Original section/article: 76. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 146. Original section/article: 77. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding of legal activity of public associations, charitable organizations
Footnote. Title of

Section 147. Original section/article: 77. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 403-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
Impeding of legal activity of public associations, as well as charitable organizations by an official, using his/her official position, as well as interference in legal activities of these associations, committed by an official using his/her official position, which resulted in violation of their rights and legitimate interests, –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 148. Original section/article: 77. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 403-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 149. Original section/article: 78. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal in representation of information to an individual
1.Illegal refusal to present documents, materials directly related to the rights and freedoms of an individual, collected in accordance with the established procedure, or providing an individual with incomplete or knowingly false information shall-
entail a fine on officials in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. Commission of actions provided by a part one of this Article by a civil servant, if these actions inflicted harm to rights and legal interests of individuals shall, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 150. Original section/article: 78. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 404-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 151. Original section/article: 79. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on personal data and their protection
1. Illegal collection and (or) processing of personal data, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminal offense shall, -
shall entail a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals, sixty monthly calculation indices for officials, private notaries, private bailiffs, lawyers, legal advisers, small business entities or non-profit organisations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2.The same actions, committed by the owner, operator or a third person using his/her official position, if these actions do not entail criminal liability established by law –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices for individuals, two hundred monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, three hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and six hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
3. Non-compliance with measures to protect personal data by a proprietor, operator or the third party, if this act does not contain any signs of a criminal offense shall, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, three hundred monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities, and six hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
4.An action, provided by part three of this Article, which resulted in loss, illegal collection and (or) processing of personal data, if these actions do not entail criminal liability, established by law shall, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for individuals, seven hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, one thousand monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 152. Original section/article: 79. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 153. Original section/article: 80. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with order, standards and substandard rendering of medical assistance
1. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
2-1. Gross violations of the standards of the organization of medical care, the rules for the provision of medical care, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on officials – in the amount of twenty-five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship and non-profit organizations – in the amount of thirty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices. 
2-2. The acts provided for by part 2-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifteen, on officials in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of a certificate of a specialist in the field of healthcare or a certificate of a manager in the field of healthcare, on subjects of small entrepreneurship and non-profit organizations - in the amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in the amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in the amount of eighty-five monthly calculation indices, with deprivation licenses or attachments to a license.
3. Non-compliance with order, standards of rendering of medical assistance, non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of professional obligations by a medical worker due to careless or unfair relation to them, if this entailed to infliction of light harm to health shall, - 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials - in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship and non-profit organizations - in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship- in amount of seventy five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices .
4. Acts provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, -
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on officials - in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship and non-profit organizations - in amount of hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices
Footnote.

Section 154. Original section/article: 80. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 127-VI dated 28.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 155. Original section/article: 80-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding the legitimate activities of medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers 
1. Impeding the performance of professional activities of medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers, as well as illegal interference in their professional activities, expressed in:
1) demanding the commission of illegal actions that do not entail criminal liability;
2) involvement of medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers in types of work not related to their professional duties, with the exception of cases provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) requesting from medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers reporting or information not provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) imposing on medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers the obligation to purchase goods (works) and services not provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on шindividuals in the amount of thirty, on officials – in the amount fifty, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Showing disrespect for medical and (or) pharmaceutical workers in the performance of their official duties, consisting in obscene language, demonstration of indecent gestures (signs) and objects, including with the use of media or telecommunications networks, obscene behavior, offensive harassment , –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to ten days.
3. Actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on officials - in the amount of seventy, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided for in part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days.
5. Actions provided for by part four of this article, committed by persons to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 156. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code does not apply, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 10 was supplemented with

Section 157. Original section/article: 80-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 158. Original section/article: 81. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of issuing a note or certificate on temporary incapacity for work by a medical worker 
1. Violation of the rules of issuing a note or certificate on temporary incapacity for work by a medical worker shall, -
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of five, on officials - in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, -
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices with or without deprivation of a certificate of a specialist in the field of healthcare, on officials - in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 159. Original section/article: 81. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 160. Original section/article: 82. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of selling medical products and requirements for writing prescriptions established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a medical worker
1. Violation of the rules of selling medical products and requirements for writing prescriptions established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a medical worker shall, -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices with deprivation of a specialist certificate or without such, on officials – in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 161. Original section/article: 82. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 162. Original section/article: 82-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on minimal social standards and their guarantees
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on minimal social standards and their guarantees being expressed in non-fulfillment and (or) failure to ensure minimal social standards, with the exception of cases provided by Articles 83, 84, 87, 89 and 91 of this Code shall, – 
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 10 is supplemented by

Section 163. Original section/article: 82-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.05.2005 № 315-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 164. Original section/article: 83. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on social protection of persons with disabilities
1. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on social protection of persons with disabilities committed in the form of:
1) failure to provide persons with disabilities with access to social and transport infrastructure facilities;
2) failure to provide conditions for access of persons with disabilities to cultural and entertainment events;
3) non–compliance by the employer with obligations in the field of vocational rehabilitation of persons with disabilities from labor injury and (or) occupational disease caused by the employer –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, – 
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices. 
3. Failure to provide persons with disabilities with types of social rehabilitation in accordance with the individual program of habilitation and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities –
entail a fine on officials in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote.

Section 165. Original section/article: 83. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 166. Original section/article: 84. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of special social services 
Footnote. Title of

Section 167. Original section/article: 84. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (effective from 01.07.2023). 
1. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of special social services committed in the form of:
1) violation of established terms for conducting assessment and determination of a need in rendering of special social services, issuance of decision on rendering of a guaranteed range of special social services;
2) failure to execute a decision on rendering of a guaranteed range of special social services shall,-
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall,-
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 168. Original section/article: 84. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 169. Original section/article: 85. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Divulgence of details by participants of mediation became known in the course of mediation
Footnote.

Section 170. Original section/article: 85. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be brought into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 171. Original section/article: 86. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Admission to work of a person without concluding of an employment contract
1. The employer's admission to work of a person without concluding of an employment contract shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. An action (inaction), provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. An action (inaction), provided by part one of this Article, committed against minors shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. An action (inaction), provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of seventy, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote.

Section 172. Original section/article: 86. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 173. Original section/article: 87. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements for remuneration of labor
1. Non-payment of wages in full and within the terms, established by labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the employer, as well as the non-charging and non-payment of surcharges for the period of payment delay due to the fault of the employer shall, -
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall, –
entail a fine on officials in amount of sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3.Violation of requirements of labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the payment of overtime work, work on holidays and weekends, as well as work payment at night time shall, -
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions, provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall,-
entail a fine on officials in amount of sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 174. Original section/article: 87. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 175. Original section/article: 88. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to grant leaves
Failure to pay a paid annual leave or its part for two consecutive years by the employer –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 176. Original section/article: 88. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23. 11. 2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 177. Original section/article: 89. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal excess of standard working time
1. Illegal excess of standard and reduced length of working time and daily work (work shift) by an employer or a receiving party provided for by the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall entail a fine on civil servants in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship
– in amount of one hundred twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 178. Original section/article: 89. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 179. Original section/article: 90. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Admission of discrimination in the scope of labor
1. Admission by the employer of discrimination in the sphere of labor, expressed in violation of the employee's right to equal pay for equal work, as well as to equal working and living conditions, including when performing work under a contract for the provision of services on providing personnel, shall – 
shall entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Placement of information on vacancies for employment containing requirements of a discriminatory character in the scope of labour by employment centre, private employment agency, as well as employer, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The action provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 180. Original section/article: 90. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 147-VІ dated 16.04.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 04.05.2020 № 321-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 181. Original section/article: 91. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision, as well as non-fulfillment of obligations to pay state benefits 
Footnote. Title of

Section 182. Original section/article: 91. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).
1. Violation by a unified accumulative pension fund (voluntary accumulative pension fund) of the terms and (or) procedure and (or) conditions of making pension payments, transfers - established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision - 
shall entail a fine on legal entities in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
3. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
4. Non-fulfillment of the obligations on payment of pensions and state benefits in full and (or) the established terms by officials of the State corporation "Government for Citizens" shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
5. Implementation by the unified accumulative pension fund or voluntary accumulative pension fund of transactions and operations in violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision –
entail a fine on legal entities – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment by an individual, an individual entrepreneur, a private notary, a private bailiff, a lawyer, a legal entity of the obligations provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision, committed in the form of:
1) non-presentation of the lists of contributors of an integrative accumulative pension fund to the state revenue body in favor of whom the debts on compulsory pension contributions, compulsory professional pension contributions are recovered;
2) failure to submit to the state revenue bodies calculations on the calculated, withheld (accrued) and transferred amounts of mandatory pension contributions, mandatory occupational pension contributions within the time limits established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision;
3) non-keeping of primary accounting of calculated, dedicated (accrued) and transferred compulsory pension contributions, compulsory professional pension contributions on each worker in accordance with the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) failure to provide depositors with information on calculated, withheld (accrued) and listed mandatory pension contributions, mandatory occupational pension contributions within the time limits established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision;
5) non-transfer, untimely and (or) incomplete calculation, dedication (accrual) and (or) payment (transfer) of compulsory pension contributions, compulsory professional pension contributions in an integrative accumulative pension fund;
6) non–termination of all expenditure operations on the cash register by order of state revenue bodies in cases provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision –
entails a warning.
7. The act provided by a part six of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of non-transferred, untimely and (or) incompletely calculated, dedicated (accrued) and (or) paid (transferred) compulsory pension contributions, compulsory professional pension contributions.
8. Non-fulfillment by banks and organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision, committed in the form of:
1) non-suspension of expenditure transactions on bank accounts of agents - legal entities or individual entrepreneurs, private notaries, private bailiffs and lawyers by order of state revenue bodies in cases and in the manner provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision;
2) non-transfer (non-enumeration), untimely transfer (later than the day when transactions were made to debit money from bank accounts or the next day of cash payment to a bank or an organization that carries out certain types of banking operations) or making mistakes in filling in the details of a payment document through the fault of the bank or organization, carrying out certain types of banking operations, when transferring to the State Corporation "Government for Citizens" the sum of compulsory pension contributions, mandatory professional pension contributions and surcharges;
3) failure to execute collection orders of the state revenue bodies on recovery of the sums of compulsory pension contributions, compulsory professional pension contributions and late fees in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall entail a fine in amount of five percent of the sum of committed debit operations on banking accounts of agents for the period of non-fulfillment of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on pension benefits -
entails a fine in the amount of five percent of the amount of expenditure transactions performed on agents' bank accounts for the period of non-fulfillment of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision.
9. Announcement or publication by a unified accumulative pension fund or a voluntary accumulative pension fund in the media of advertisemnt that is not true to fact as of the publication day, –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Non–compliance of the investment declaration of the voluntary accumulative pension fund with the requirements provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision to its content -
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) failure to provide and (or) untimely provision of information or other requested information to the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations by a unified funded pension fund or a voluntary funded pension fund, founders (shareholders) of a voluntary funded pension fund and (or) their affiliates – shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals and one hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
12. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) submission to the competent authority on regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations and (or) the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the unified accumulative pension fund or voluntary accumulative pension fund, founders (shareholders) of the voluntary accumulative pension fund and (or) their affiliates of inaccurate and (or) incomplete reporting, data or other requested information – shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals and one hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
Note.
1. For the purposes of parts one and twelve of this Article, a unified accumulative pension fund (voluntary accumulative pension fund) shall not be subject to administrative liability in case of independent elimination of infringements, whose liability is stipulated by parts one and twelve of this Article, prior to the date of receipt of notification of the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the infringement committed.
2. For the purposes of parts six and seven of this Article, a person shall not be subject to administrative liability if the amount of non-transferred, untimely and (or) incompletely calculated, withheld (accrued) and (or) paid (transferred) mandatory pension contributions, mandatory professional pension contributions is less than one monthly calculation indicator established under the law in force on the date of detection of an administrative offense.
3. For the purposes of part eleven of this Article, an individual and (or) a legal entity shall not be subject to administrative liability if the information or other requested information is submitted no later than one working day after the deadline for submission of the information or other requested information has expired.
Footnote.

Section 183. Original section/article: 91. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 184. Original section/article: 92. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance 
Footnote. Title of

Section 185. Original section/article: 92. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (effective from 01.07.2023).
1. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment by officials of the requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance, committed in the form of:
1) violation of the established terms and completeness of the amount of designated social payments by the state social insurance fund;
2) violation of the established terms and completeness of the amount of payment of social payments by the State corporation "Government for Citizens", -
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment by the payer of social contributions of the obligations provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance, committed in the form of:
1) failure to represent the lists of participants of the system of compulsory social insurance to the state revenue authority in favor of that the debt on social contributions shall be collected;
2) failure to pay (failure to transfer), untimely and (or) incomplete payment (accrual) of social expenditures;
3) non–termination of all expenditure operations on the cash register by order of state revenue bodies in cases provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance -
entail a notification.
3. Acts provided by a part two of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, attorney for defence, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of non-paid (non-transferred), untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) social expenditures.
4. Non-fulfillment by banks and organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance, committed in the form of:
1) non-termination of all expenditure transactions on the bank accounts of the payer of social contributions by order of the state revenue bodies in cases provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of compulsory social insurance;
2) non-transfer (non-enumeration), untimely transfer (later than the day when transactions were made to debit money from bank accounts or the next day of cash payment to a bank or an organization that carries out certain types of banking operations) or making mistakes in filling in details of the payment document through the fault of the bank or organization, carrying out certain types of banking operations, when transferring to the State corporation "Government for Citizens" the sum of social deductions and surcharges;
3) failure to execute collection orders of the state revenue bodies on recovery of the sums of compulsory social expenditures and late fees in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall entail a fine in amount of five percent of the sum of committed debit operations on banking accounts of payers for the period of non-fulfillment of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social insurance -
entails a fine in the amount of five percent of the amount of expenditure transactions performed on payers' bank accounts for the period of non-fulfillment of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social insurance.
Note. For the purpose of parts two and three of this Article, the persons shall not be subject to bringing to administrative liability in case if the sum of non-paid (non-transferred), untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) social expenditures does not exceed amount of one monthly calculation index established in accordance with the Law being in force on a date of detection of administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 186. Original section/article: 92. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2019 № 287-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 187. Original section/article: 92-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social health insurance
1. Non-fulfillment or improper performance of deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance and obligations provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social health insurance by the payer, committed in the form of:
1) failure to submit lists of payers of deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance to the state revenue authorities;
2) non-payment (non-transfer), untimely and (or) incomplete payment (untimely and (or) incomplete transfer) of deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance by employers, individual entrepreneurs, private notaries, private bailiffs, lawyers, professional mediators shall-
entail a notification.
2. The actions, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on private notaries, private bailiffs, lawyers, professional mediators, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of unpaid (non-transferred) untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance.
3. Failure to perform the duties, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social health insurance by banks and organizations, carrying out certain types of banking operations, committed in the form of:
1) non-stop of all spending operations on the bank accounts of the payer of social contributions on the orders of the state revenue bodies in cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social health insurance;
2) non-fulfillment in the manner, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, of collection orders of state revenue bodies to collect the sums of deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance and surcharges, shall entail a fine in amount of five percent of the sum of performed expenditure transactions on bank accounts of payers for the period of duties non-fulfillment, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory social health insurance.
Note. For the purposes of parts one and two of this Article, a person shall not be subject to administrative liability in event, that the amount of unpaid (non-transferred), untimely and (or) incompletely paid (transferred) deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance does not exceed the size of one monthly calculation index, established in accordance with the law in force at the date of an administrative offense detection.
Footnote. Chapter 10 is supplemented with

Section 188. Original section/article: 92-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.07.2017).

Section 189. Original section/article: 93. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of safety ensuring and labour protection
1. Absence of safety service (specialist) and labour protection in production organizations in accordance with requirement of the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Violation of requirements by an employer on conduct of compulsory and periodical medical inspections and pre-shift medical certification of workers in accordance with requirements of the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
3. Failure to supply medicinal and prophylactic food to workers by means of individual and collective protection in accordance with requirement of the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
4. Failure to perform the requirements of the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by an employer on conducting training, examinations of knowledge on safety and labor protection issues of employees, managers and persons responsible for ensuring labor safety and protection, - 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
5. Actions envisaged by parts one, two, three, four of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, sixty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two hundred and forty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
6. Failure of the employer to comply with the requirements of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan to provide instruction ( apart from induction training) and (or) lack of documents on occupational health and safety – 
shall entail a fine of forty monthly calculation indices for officials, for small businesses or non-profit organizations, sixty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
7. Acts provided by a part six of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations, one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two hundred and forty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 190. Original section/article: 93. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 04.05.2020 № 321-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 191. Original section/article: 94. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation on conduct of attestation of production facilities on labour conditions
Violation of requirements of the legislation on carrying out of attestation of industrial objects on a state of labor conditions, established by the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the employer -
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for small business entities or non-profit organisations, thirty-five monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and fifty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 192. Original section/article: 94. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 193. Original section/article: 95. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to investigate accidents related to work activities
Footnote. Title of

Section 194. Original section/article: 95. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).
1. Non-ensuring of investigation of industrial accidents in accordance with a requirement of the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices for small enterprises or non-profit organizations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for small business entities or non-profit organisations, two hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities, and four hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 195. Original section/article: 95. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 196. Original section/article: 96. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-reporting the fact of an accident related to work activity
Footnote. Heading of

Section 197. Original section/article: 96. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure to report the fact of an accident related to labor activity within the terms established by the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices for small business entities or non-profit organisations, one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction -
shall entail a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for small enterprises or non-profit organisations, three hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and four hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
Footnote.

Section 198. Original section/article: 96. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 199. Original section/article: 97. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation on conclusion of a collective contract, agreement
1. Evasion from participation in negotiations on concluding, amending or supplementing a collective contract, agreement or violation of the terms of holding the mentioned negotiations, failure to ensure the work of the relevant commission within the terms specified by the parties, shall-
entail a fine on persons authorized to conduct negotiations in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Unreasonable refusal to conclude a collective contract, agreement, shall –
entail a fine on persons authorized to conclude a collective contract, agreement, in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-fulfillment or violation of obligation under a collective contract, agreement, shall-
entail a fine on persons, being guilty in non-fulfilling the obligations under a collective contract, agreement, in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-presentation of information necessary for holding of collective negotiations and carrying out control on implementation of collective contracts, agreements, shall –
entail a fine on persons, being guilty in non-presentation of information, in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 200. Original section/article: 97. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.11.2015 № 415-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 201. Original section/article: 98. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of employment of population 
Footnote. Title of

Section 202. Original section/article: 98. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (effective from 01.07.2023).
1. Violation by the employer of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of employment of the population, committed in the form of:
1) failure to provide the employment center, in full and (or) within the established time limits, information on the upcoming release of employees in connection with the liquidation of the employer - a legal entity or the termination of the employer - an individual, a reduction in the number or staff, a decrease in the volume of production and work and services performed, resulting in deterioration in the economic condition of the employer;
2) failure to submit, untimely submission to the employment center of information on existence of vacant positions;
3) failure to represent, untimely notifying on acceptance for work or refusal in acceptance for work;
4) non-fulfillment of the established quota of jobs for disabled, persons, registered with probation service, as well as persons released from places of deprivation of liberty, and citizens from the youth, who have lost or remained without adult care, who are graduates of educational organizations;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 147-VІ dated 16.04.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
entail a notification.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall -
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seven, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to conclude a contract by an employment agency with a person that referred for rendering of services on labour mediation shall –
entail a notification.
4. An action (inaction), provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
6. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 203. Original section/article: 98. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2016 № 483-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 147-VІ dated 16.04.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 13.05.2020 № 327-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 204. Original section/article: 99. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state service
1. Violation of a procedure for competitive selection for taking a vacant administrative state position shall -
entail a fine on officials in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. Illegal dismissal of persons from administrative state positions shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 205. Original section/article: 99. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 206. Original section/article: 100. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Reversion of a claim to the damage of an individual or legal entity filed by him (her) (it)
Footnote.

Section 207. Original section/article: 100. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of RK № 155-VIII dated 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
Chapter 11. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS INFRINGING
ON ELECTORAL RIGHTS (RIGHT TO PARITIPATE IN
REPUBLICAN REFERENDUM)

Section 208. Original section/article: 101. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-presentation of details and materials to electoral commission (commission of republican referendum) by civil servants or non-execution of commission’s decisions
Non-presentation of details and materials to electoral commission (commission of republican referendum) by civil servants on existence or absence of outstanding or unexpunged conviction of a candidate in the manner established by the Law; on a guilt in commission of corruption crime and infarction of a candidate recognized by a court in the manner established by the Law; on a citizenship of a candidate; on credibility of details on incomes and property declared by a candidate or his (her) wife (husband); on lists of electorates on each electoral district or non-execution of the commission’s decision by them being adopted within its competition, shall
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 209. Original section/article: 102. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conduct of pre-election campaigning during its prohibition
Conduct of pre-election campaigning before completion of the term of registration of a candidate, party list on a date of elections or a date preceding it, as well as conduct of campaigning on a date of conducting republican referendum or a date preceding it, shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 210. Original section/article: 103. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding the right to carry on pre-election campaigning
Impeding to candidates for presidency, deputies or for other elective positions, their authorized representatives, policy parties in the process of exercising the right to carry on pre-election campaigning shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 211. Original section/article: 104. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Distribution of knowingly false information on candidates, policy parties
Distribution of knowingly false information on candidates, policy parties or commission of other actions discrediting their honor, dignity and business reputation for the purpose of influence on electoral outcome shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 212. Original section/article: 105. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rights of a member of electoral commission (commission of republican referendum)
Violation of the rights of a member of electoral commission (commission of republican referendum) to act at a session of electoral commission, make proposals on the issues included to the competence of the relevant electoral commission, and require conduct of voting on them, familiarize with documents and materials of electoral commission to which he (she) belongs, receive their certified copies, carry out inspection of activity of inferior electoral commission shall entail a fine in amount of thirty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 213. Original section/article: 106. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the right of a citizen to familiarize with a list of electorates
Violation of the right of a citizen to familiarize with a list of electorates (electors, list of persons having the right to participate in republican referendum) or failure to consider an application to electoral commission on a date of receipt, or refusal to issue a copy of a decision to the citizen in written form with exposure of motives for dismissing the application on applying corrections into the list of electorates (electors, list of persons having the right to participate in republican referendum), or non-execution of the court decision on correction of the list of electorates (electors, list of persons having the right to participate in republican referendum) without delay shall -
entail a notification or a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 214. Original section/article: 106. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 215. Original section/article: 107. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representation of false details on electorates for drawing lists of electorates (citizens having the right to participate in republican referendum)
1. Representation of false details on electorates (citizens having the right to participate in republican referendum) by civil servants to local executive bodies for drawing the lists of electorates (citizens having the right to participate in referendum) shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
2. Representation of false lists of electorates (citizens having the right to participate in republican referendum) by civil servants of local executive bodies to the relevant electoral commission shall entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.

Section 216. Original section/article: 108. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirement on equal electoral right
Violation of requirement on equal electoral right by voting two and more times or for another electorate shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 217. Original section/article: 109. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of activity by foreign persons, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and international organizations impeding and (or) promoting nomination and election of candidates, policy parties that nominated party list, achievement of certain results at elections
Carrying out of activity by foreign persons, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and international organizations impeding and (or) promoting nomination and election of candidates, policy parties that nominated party list, achievement of certain results at elections shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with administrative expulsion beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without such, on legal entities – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.

Section 218. Original section/article: 110. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Issuance of voting bulletins (bulletins for voting) to citizens for the purpose of provision of a possibility to vote for other persons
Issuance of voting bulletins (bulletins for voting) by a member of electoral commission (commission of republican referendum) to citizens for the purpose of provision of a possibility to vote for other persons shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 219. Original section/article: 111. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal of an employer in provision of a leave for participation in elections (republican referendum)
Refusal of an employer to provide a leave provided by the legislative acts to registered candidate for deputies or for another elective position or to a member of electoral commission for participation in preparation and conduct of elections in bodies of state power, management and in bodies of local self-government (republican referendum), shall entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.

Section 220. Original section/article: 112. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of conditions for conducting election campaigning through mass media and online platforms 
Footnote. The title of

Section 221. Original section/article: 112. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Non-objective covering of electoral campaign of candidates, policy parties by mass media that is expressed in distortion of purposes, tasks and results of pre-election actions, as well as events and facts linked with them shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Distribution by broadcasting entities of any propaganda materials in news, analytical programs –
entails a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Publication by mass media, users of online platforms of campaign materials and other information knowingly discrediting the honor, dignity and business reputation of a candidate or a political party, as well as refusal to provide these persons with the opportunity to publish a refutation in defense of honor, dignity and business reputation free of charge –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Interrupting and commenting speeches of candidates on television and radio immediately after the speech, as well as in printed publications in a same number shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of requirements by means of mass media on distribution of information on events on nomination of all the candidates and party lists, their registration by electoral commissions in equal volumes of print space, broadcast time shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Publication or airing of campaigning materials of candidates, policy parties participating in elections by mass media that no later than five days before election campaigning did not announce and did not publish, as well as did not represent details to the electoral commission on amount of payment, conditions and procedure for representing airing and print space, –
shall entail a fine on civil servants o amount of thirty, on legal entities in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Refusal of mass media from allocation of a broadcast time, print space to one of candidates, policy party that nominated a party list, in case if the same mass media gave an agreement to another candidate, policy party that nominated the party list for allocation of the broadcast time, print space, shall entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Violation of priority of the speeches of the candidates and policy parties that nominated party lists in mass media, established in the manner of receiving written references or by lot, in case, if the references were received at the same time, shall 
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
8. Creation of preferences to one or another candidate, policy party that nominated the party list by conditions of a contract on provision of a broadcast time, print space in mass media to candidates and policy parties that nominated the party lists -
shall entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 222. Original section/article: 112. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 163-VI dated 29.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 223. Original section/article: 113. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Production or distribution of anonymous campaign materials
Production or distribution during the preparation and conduct of elections to state authorities and local self–government bodies (republican referendum) of campaign materials that do not contain information about the organizations that released these materials (for printed materials - the place of their printing and circulation), the persons who made the order, and from which funds they were paid, as well as the production of campaign materials outside the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, distribution of anonymous campaign materials –
shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 224. Original section/article: 113. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 225. Original section/article: 114. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Intentional destruction, damage of campaign materials
Intentional destruction, damage of campaign materials of candidates for deputies or for other elective position, posted with consent of the owner or another owner on buildings, structures and other objects shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.

Section 226. Original section/article: 115. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to represent or publish reports on payout of funds for preparation and conduct of elections (republican referendum)
Failure to represent details by a candidate, person being elected as a deputy or for another elective position, or by a policy party on amounts of incomings (charitable gifts) to electoral funds and on sources of creation of electoral funds, as well as report on use of the funds of the electoral fund shall entail a fine on a candidate, person elected as a deputy or for another elective position, in amount of fifteen, on a legal entity – in amount of fifty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 227. Original section/article: 116. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Financing of electoral campaign or rendering of another material assistance besides the electoral funds
Provision of financial or other material assistance, as well as charity assistance provided by charitable organizations and associations to candidates, political parties that nominated party lists, in addition to their electoral funds, - 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 228. Original section/article: 116. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 403-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 229. Original section/article: 117. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Acceptance of charitable gifts by a candidate for elective state position or by a policy party from foreign states, organizations, foreign persons and stateless persons
Acceptance of charitable gifts by a candidate for deputies or for another elective state position or by a policy party in any form from a foreign state, international organization or international public association, foreign state bodies, foreign persons and legal entities created in accordance with the legislation of another state, as well as stateless persons shall entail a fine on a candidate for deputies or for another elective position in amount of fifty, on a legal entity – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of subjects of gifts.

Section 230. Original section/article: 118. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Rendering of services by individuals and legal entities to candidates, policy parties without their written agreement
Rendering of services by individuals and legal entities to candidates, policy parties due to their pre-election activity without their written agreement shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 231. Original section/article: 119. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to represent or publish details on vote returns or on election results (republican referendum)
1. Failure to represent details on vote returns being compulsory for representation in accordance with the legislation of the Republic by a chairman of district election commission for familiarization to the authorized person of a candidate, representative of mass media, spectator shall entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 163-VI dated 29.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed by a chairman of territorial election commission, as well as violation of the terms for publication or incomplete publication of details on vote returns at elections (republican referendum) established by the election legislation (legislation on republican referendum) shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. Acts provided by parts one and three of this Article committed by a Chairman of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 232. Original section/article: 119. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 163-VI dated 29.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 233. Original section/article: 120. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of conditions for public opinion polling, elections related 
1. Breach of the procedure for publication of results of public opinion polling, forecasts of election results, other researches elections related by mass media, and specifically non-specification of legal entity that conducted the polling, persons that ordered the polling and paid for it, polling time, method of information collection, precise question formulation, number of respondents and a rate of uncertainty on results of the polling -
shall entail a fine on individual in amount of fifteen, on legal entities – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices. 
2. Publication of results of public opinion polling, forecasts of election results, other researches elections related voting in support of candidates or political parties on the Internet in mass media within five days before voting day and on voting day, as well as conduct of public opinion polling on voting day in a premise or voting precinct-
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on legal entities – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
3. Public opinion polling without complying with the requirements of the electoral legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on legal entities – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 234. Original section/article: 120. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 163-VI dated 29.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 235. Original section/article: 121. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Making amendments into the lists of electorates (electors) after beginning of vote tabulation
Making amendments into the lists of electorates (electors) after beginning of vote tabulation shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 236. Original section/article: 122. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of conditions of conducting pre-election campaigning
1. Conduct of pre-election campaigning by state bodies, bodies of local self-government, as well as their civil servants upon fulfillment of official obligations, military servants of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, workers of national security bodies, law enforcement bodies, judges, members of election commissions, religious associations, as well as distribution of any campaign pre-election materials by mentioned persons shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Conduct of pre-election campaigning accompanied by provision of goods, services, securities to electorates without payment, as well as conducting of lotteries, charitable actions, payment of money or promise to provide such shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Participation of journalists, civil servants of editors of mass media registered by candidates or their authorized persons in coverage of elections through mass media shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 237. Original section/article: 123. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of conditions of providing premises to candidates for meetings with electorates
Refusal of civil servants of local executive bodies and bodies of local self-government in provision of premises to one of the candidates, policy party that nominated the party list on a contractual basis for meetings with electorates, in case if they gave a consent to another candidate, policy party that nominated the party list shall entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.

Section 238. Original section/article: 124. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Placement of campaigning materials
Placement of campaigning materials on monuments, obelisks, buildings and structures, having historical, cultural or architectural value, as well as in a premise for voting shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 239. Original section/article: 125. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure for expenditure of the funds allocated from republican budget for conduct of pre-election campaigning
Inappropriate expenditure of the funds by candidates for deputies or for another elective position, allocated from republican budget for conduct of pre-election campaigning, shall entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 240. Original section/article: 126. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding to legal activity of authorized persons of candidates, policy parties, representatives of mass media and spectators at elections
1. Impeding to the right of authorized persons of candidates, policy parties, spectators of policy parties, other public associations, non-profit organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of mass media to attend at sessions of electoral commission or presence at a polling district on a polling day from the date of its opening and until establishment of vote results upon vote tabulation of electorates, or supervision of the course of voting, procedure for vote tabulation and presentation of vote results at a polling district, in a voting precinct, or presence upon opening and installation of equipment of electronic electoral system, as well as upon inspection of its work in cases when such right is provided by the Law shall entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Impeding to the right of authorized persons of candidates, policy parties, spectators of policy parties, other public associations, non-profit organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan to accompaniment of the members of electoral commission for organization of voting outside a voting premise or presence upon conduct of voting of electorates outside the voting premise, or carrying out of photo-, audio- and video-recording, or supervision of procedures for transferring the protocols on vote results to superior electoral commissions, or refusal in receipt of information on a quantity of the electorates that took participation in voting, as well as in voting outside the premise, or appeal of decisions, actions (omission) of the relevant electoral commission and (or) its members in cases when such right is provided by the Law, shall entail a fine in amount of thirty five monthly calculation indices.
3. Refusal in repeated vote tabulation to authorized persons of candidates, policy parties in cases when such right is provided, shall entail a fine in amount of thirty five monthly calculation indices.
4. Impeding to the right of spectators of foreign states and international organizations, representatives of foreign mass media to attend at all the stages of election process or to receive information in electoral commissions on a course of electoral campaign, or to access to voting precincts during conduct of voting and vote tabulation, or to meeting with participants of election process, or to public announcements, or supervision of the procedures for transferring the protocols on vote results to superior electoral commissions in cases when such right is provided, shall entail a fine in amount of thirty five monthly calculation indices.
Chapter 12. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS INFRINGING
THE RIGHTS OF MINORS

Section 241. Original section/article: 127. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to fulfill obligations for upbringing and (or) education, protection of rights and (or) interests, measures to ensure the safety of a minor 
Footnote. The title of

Section 242. Original section/article: 127. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Failure of parents or other legal representatives to fulfill obligations for upbringing and (or) education, protection of rights and (or) interests, measures to ensure the safety of minor children, as well as for their care and maintenance –
entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices. 
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall, –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a term up to five days. 
3. The action provided by part one of this Article, committed by a parent or other person entrusted with these duties, as well as a teacher or other employee of an educational organization, health care or other organization, who is entrusted with the responsibility for upbringing and (or) education, resulting in the use alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, or engaging in vagrancy or begging, or committing a deliberate action containing signs of a criminal or administrative infraction shall, –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a term up to ten days.
Footnote.

Section 243. Original section/article: 127. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 294-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 244. Original section/article: 127-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to deliver on unlawful acts committed by minors or in relation to minors 
1. Failure to deliver by employees of education organizations, health care, social protection of the public to law enforcement agencies about the facts of commission by minors or in relation to them actions (inaction) of criminal or administrative offence, in education organizations, health care, social protection of the public, as well as the facts that became them known in connection with their professional activities outside education, health care and social protection of the public organizations, if these acts shall not be criminally punishable act provided by

Section 245. Original section/article: 434. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on officials – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of administrative sanction provided by part one of this Article, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 12 supplemented by

Section 246. Original section/article: 127-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 240-VI dated 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 247. Original section/article: 127-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bullying (bullying, cyberbullying) of a minor 
1. Bullying (bullying, cyberbullying) of a minor –
entails a warning or a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. An action provided for in parts one or two of this article, committed by a minor aged twelve to sixteen years, –
entails a warning or a fine on parents or persons replacing them in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The Code is supplemented by

Section 248. Original section/article: 127-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 249. Original section/article: 127-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan relating to the protection of children’s rights 
1. A breach by the heads of educational institutions and/or organisations exercising functions relating to the protection of children’s rights, and/or officials of the executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of the protection of children’s rights, committed in the form of:
1) failure to follow the procedure for receiving reports of bullying of a child and/or taking steps to identify signs of bullying of a child, and/or responding to such reports;
2) failure to render assistance to minors who have been subjected to violence and/or abuse, and/or bullying, and/or who have witnessed violence;
3) failure to present the relevant documents for children without parental care, street children and/or children referred to special educational institutions, and/or children in need of special social services as a result of abuse, who have suffered social maladjustment and social deprivation, and/or orphans, and/or children without parental care, who are placed in educational institutions for orphans and children without parental care, –
shall be punishable by a fine of thirty times the monthly reference rate.
2. A breach by officials of the executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of child protection, committed in the form of:
1) failure to comply with the deadlines and/or the amount, and/or the grounds for terminating the payment of maintenance allowances for an orphaned child (orphans), and/or a child (or children) left without parental care;
2) the appointment of guardians or trustees and/or foster parents, and/or professional foster carers, and/or foster carers who do not meet the requirements of matrimonial and family law;
3) failure to observe the terms of children’s stay in organisations responsible for protecting children’s rights shall result in a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure by heads of educational institutions to fulfil the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding the protection of children’s rights, committed in the form of:
1) failure to follow the procedure for psychological and educational support in educational institutions; 
2) failure to keep records of minors who do not attend educational institutions without valid reason;
3) failure to ensure pedagogical support for minors requiring special attention – shall result in a fine of thirty times the monthly reference rate.
4. Any of the acts mentioned in parts one, two and three of this article, if committed again within one year of an administrative penalty being imposed, shall result in a fine of sixty monthly calculation indices.
5. A breach of the rules governing the provision of meals for learners in state secondary schools, out-of-school supplementary education institutions, and the procurement of goods relating to the provision of meals for children attending state pre-school institutions, educational institutions for orphans and children without parental care, and technical, vocational and post-secondary education institutions, committed in the form of:
1) failure to examine or late review of comments on the draft tender documentation and requests for clarification of the provisions of the tender documentation received as part of the preliminary discussion of the draft tender documentation, or the failure to publish, or the late publication on the public procurement web portal, of the minutes of the preliminary discussion of the draft tender documentation, where comments or requests for clarification have been made, as well as the text of the tender documentation;
2) direction of the request and other actions taken by the tender committee regarding supplementing the application for participation in the tender with missing documents, replacing documents submitted in the application for participation in the tender, and rectifying incorrectly completed documents after the deadline for bringing applications for participation in the tender into line with the qualification requirements and the requirements of the tender documentation has expired;
3) failure to observe the requirements regarding the non-application of criteria for selecting a supplier of services or goods, as well as the incorrect calculation of such criteria;
4) failure by the customer, the procurement organiser or the single procurement organiser to bring, or bringing too late, a claim before the court seeking a declaration that a potential supplier or supplier is acting in bad faith in the procurement process, where the potential supplier or supplier has given inaccurate information regarding the qualification requirements;
5) procurement to ensure the uninterrupted provision of meals for learners and students beyond the specified period;
6) failure to examine applications from potential suppliers wishing to participate in the tender in a timely manner, as well as failure to publish the pre-qualification report and/or the final results report in a timely manner, –
shall result in a fine of forty monthly calculation indices for officials.
6. Any acts referred to in paragraph 5 of this article that are committed again within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty shall result in a fine of eighty monthly calculation indices being imposed on the officials concerned.
Note.
1. For the purposes of this article, “officials” shall mean senior managers; in their absence, this shall mean deputy managers or those acting in their stead, who have been assigned these duties by the relevant orders.
2. For the purposes of Part 3 of this Article, “officials” shall be understood to mean:
1) in sub-paragraphs (1) and (4) – the senior managers of the procuring entity, the single procuring entity, the contracting authority or persons acting in their stead, who are responsible for the organisation and conduct of procurement procedures;
2) in sub-paragraphs 2), 3) and 6) – the chairperson and members of the selection panel; 3) in sub-paragraph 5) – the head of the organisation or the person who took the decision within the scope of their delegated powers.
Footnote. Chapter 12 has been supplemented with

Section 250. Original section/article: 127-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of December 30, 2025 (to come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 251. Original section/article: 128. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Involvement of a minor in commission of administrative infraction
1. Involvement of a minor in commission of an administrative infraction, except for the actions provided by part two of this Article shall, -
entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices. 
2. Involvement of a minor in meetings, rallies, processions, demonstrations and other forms of expression of public, group or personal interests and protest, conducted in violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the use of a minor in the specified forms of expression of public, group or personal interests and protest -
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a term up to ten days.
Footnote.

Section 252. Original section/article: 128. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.11.2019 № 273-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 253. Original section/article: 129. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to fulfill the obligation on registration of orphaned children, children left without parental custody, being in need of a dwelling place by persons of local executive bodies and (or) legal representatives of a child
1. Failure to fulfill the obligation on registration of orphaned children, children left without parental custody, being in need of a dwelling place, and equally registration with violation of established term by civil servants of local executive bodies and (or) legal representatives of a child shall entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 254. Original section/article: 130. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to fulfill the obligation on preservation of a dwelling place of orphaned children, children left without parental custody by persons of local executive bodies and (or) legal representatives of a child
1. Failure to fulfill the obligation on preservation of a dwelling place of orphaned children, children left without parental custody by civil servants of local executive bodies and (or) legal representatives of a child shall -
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 255. Original section/article: 130. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 256. Original section/article: 131. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Reduction of a minor to intoxication
Reduction of a minor to intoxication shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to five years.

Section 257. Original section/article: 132. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Admission for minors to stay in entertainment places at night time
1. Admission for minors to stay in entertainment places without accompaniment of legal representatives at night time (from 22 pm to 6 am) shall-
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of activity or certain types of activity.
Footnote.

Section 258. Original section/article: 132. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 259. Original section/article: 133. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, systems for heating tobacco, by persons under eighteen years of age. 
1. Sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, systems for heating tobacco, by persons under eighteen years of age, –
shall result in a fine of fifteen monthly calculation indices for natural persons, twenty-five for small business entities and non-profit organisations, forty for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred for large business entities.
2. The action provided for by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
shall result in a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals, fifty for small business entities and non-profit organisations, eighty for medium-sized business entities, and two hundred for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 260. Original section/article: 133. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 261. Original section/article: 187. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tourism 
1. Failure by persons engaged in tourism activities to inform tourists, or to do so in a timely or complete manner, of the specific features of the trips and the risks they may encounter whilst travelling, as specified in the rules governing the provision of tourism services; or failure to take precautionary measures aimed at ensuring the safety of tourists,
shall entail a fine of seventeen monthly calculation indices for small business entities, twenty-five for medium-sized business entities, and fifty for large business entities.
2. Acts (or omissions) referred to in the first paragraph of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty,
shall result in a fine of thirty-five monthly calculation indices for small business entities, fifty for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred for large business entities, together with the revocation of their licence.
3. Furnishing of tourist services by persons engaged in tourism activities (excluding those acting as tour operators) without entering into a written contract for tourist services –
shall result in a fine of seventeen monthly calculation indices for small business entities, twenty-five for medium-sized business entities, and fifty for large business entities.
4. Action (or inaction) as described in part three of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall result in a fine of thirty-five monthly calculation indices for small business entities, fifty for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred for large business entities.
5. Failure by persons engaged in tourism activities (excluding persons acting as tour operators) to provide, or the late provision of, information to the relevant state authorities and the tourist’s family regarding incidents involving tourists whilst travelling –
shall result in a fine of thirty-five monthly calculation indices for small business entities, fifty for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred for large business entities.
6. Action (or inaction) as referred to in part five of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall result in a fine of seventy-five monthly calculation indices for small business entities, one hundred for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred and fifty for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 262. Original section/article: 187. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
– as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VIII of December 17, 2025 (shall take effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 263. Original section/article: 134. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Dissemination to minors of erotic content subjects or information products containing information prohibited for children 
1. Dissemination that is, sale, subscribe, deliver, distribute, display, hire and (or) rent to minors of erotic content subjects or information products containing information prohibited for children, - 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organization – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of erotic content subjects or information products containing information prohibited for children.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction as well as using telecommunications networks, -
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organization – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred sixty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of erotic content subjects or information products containing information prohibited for children.
Footnote.

Section 264. Original section/article: 134. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 170-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 265. Original section/article: 135. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure and terms for submitting orphans, children left without parental care, and persons wishing to adopt children for upbringing to their families to the Republican data bank, and disclosure of information about orphans, children left without parental care
Footnote. The title of

Section 266. Original section/article: 135. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.09.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
1. Violation by heads of organizations in which there are children, left without parental care, by officials of the executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this action (inaction) does not contain any signs of a criminal offense, as well as by persons wishing to adopt children for upbringing to their families, committed as:
1) non-observance of the terms for submitting information about orphans and children left without parental care to the Republican data bank for orphans, children left without parental care, and persons wishing to adopt children for upbringing to their families;
2) submission of false information about orphans, children left without parental care, concealing data to be reflected in the Republican data bank for orphans, children left without parental care, and persons wishing to adopt children to their families;
3) illegal disclosure of data about orphans, children left without parental care contained in the Republican data bank for orphans, children left without parental care, and persons wishing to adopt children for upbringing to their families, shall –
entail a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall -
entail a fine for individuals in amount of five, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 267. Original section/article: 135. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.09.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).

Section 268. Original section/article: 135-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure of officials to report facts of abandonment of a newborn, admission and delivery of orphans and children left without parental care 
1. Failure of officials of medical organizations and organizations implementing functions to protect the rights of the child to report facts of abandonment of a newborn, admission and delivery of orphans and children left without parental care to the body implementing functions of guardianship or trusteeship and the prosecutor's office of the relevant administrative-territorial unit -
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 12 is supplemented by

Section 269. Original section/article: 135-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 13. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS INFRINGING
TO PROPERTY

Section 270. Original section/article: 136. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a right of state ownership of land
Illegal occupation or exchange of state land fields or consummation of other transactions directly or indirectly infringing the right of the state ownership of land, as well as untimely return of temporary occupied state lands, shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of seventy five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 271. Original section/article: 137. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the land legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon provision of the right to a land field and upon change of designated purpose of a land field
1. Breach of the land legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon provision of the right to a land field and upon change of designated purpose of a land field, if these actions do not contain signs of criminally punishable act committed in the form of:
1) provision of land plots or the right to lease land plots that are in state ownership and not provided for land use without bidding (auctions) and tenders, except in cases when the auction and competitive methods of granting land plots do not apply to the land plot or the right to lease the land plot;
2) violation of established terms of considering the petitions (applications) of individuals and legal entities on provision of the relevant right to land field;
3) adoption of decision by a local executive body on provision of the rights to land fields without a favorable conclusion of the land commission and (or) without approved land surveying project;
4) violation of the term for adoption of decision by a local executive body on refusal to provide the rights to land fields;
5) violation of the term for adoption of decision by a local executive body on provision of the rights to land fields;
6) adoption of decision by a local executive body on provision of the right of private property to land fields that may not be in private ownership;
7) adoption of decision by a local executive body on compulsory alienation of a land field for the state needs in cases not provided by the legislative acts;
8) adoption of decision by a local executive body on free provision of land fields into private ownership with size that is more than a standard provided by the land legislation, as well as repeated free provision;
9) adoption of decision by a local executive body on provision of the right of temporary non-repayable land use for the purpose and in the term not provided by the land legislation;
10) making a decision by the local executive body on granting the right of private ownership or land use rights to agricultural land to foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities, legal entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan with foreign participation, international organizations, scientific centers with international participation, candas, as well as citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who are married with foreigners or stateless persons;
10-1) making a decision by the local executive body, akim of a town of district significance, settlement, village, rural district on granting the right of private ownership or land use rights to pastures specified in the pasture management plan and their use, necessary to meet the needs of the population for grazing farm animals of a personal farmstead;
10-2) making a decision by the local executive body, akim of a town of district significance, settlement, village, rural district on granting separate ownership and land use to citizens and non-state legal entities of land plots occupied by hayfields used and intended for the needs of the population, including those located within the boundaries of towns of regional and district significance, rural settlements;
11) adoption of decision by a local executive body on provision of the rights to land fields that are not included into its competence;
12) violation of the term for consideration of an application on change of designated purpose of a land field;
13) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
14) violations of the terms of approval of the land management project;
15) violations of the terms of conclusion of purchase and sale agreements, land lease agreements and temporary gratuitous land use;
16) failure or untimely holding of tenders for granting the right of temporary paid land use (lease) for farming, agricultural production and bidding (auctions) for the provision of land plots or the right to lease land plots after refusal to grant due to the need for such provision at bidding (auctions);
17) violations by the authorized body for land relations of the terms of renewal of the contract of temporary paid land use (lease) of agricultural land plots when alienating the right of land use;
18) violations of the deadlines for posting and updating information on vacant land plots and planned bidding (auctions) on the web portal of the register of state property, Internet resources of local executive bodies and special information stands in places accessible to the public, –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 272. Original section/article: 137. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (for the procedure for entry into force, see

Section 273. Original section/article: 138. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Destruction of special signs
1. Destruction of landmarks of borders of land fields shall -
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of three, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Destruction of or damage to state observation points for water bodies and water resources, special information signs and signs of restrictions and prohibitions on general water use, forest management or forestry signs in the forest fund, mine surveying, geodetic points and signs - shall 
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of seven hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 274. Original section/article: 138. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publications); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 275. Original section/article: 139. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the right of state ownership to subsoil
1. Illegal use of subsoil with the exception of ground waters, consummation of transaction violating the right of the state ownership to subsoil in a direct or latent form shall –
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred percent from the amount of damage caused to subsoil resources.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction 
entail a fine in the amount of two hundred percent of the amount of damage caused to subsoil resources with confiscation of the property obtained as a result of an administrative infraction, as well as tools and objects used in the commission of an administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 276. Original section/article: 139. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 277. Original section/article: 140. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Selective development of deposit fields
Footnote.

Section 278. Original section/article: 140. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 279. Original section/article: 141. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of state ownership right to the water fund 
Footnote. The title of

Section 280. Original section/article: 141. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Illegal seizure of water bodies, assignment of water use rights, as well as other transactions that directly or indirectly violate the right of state ownership to the water fund - 
shall entail a fine of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, two hundred for officials, small businesses or non-profit organizations, three hundred for medium-sized businesses, and one thousand three hundred for large businesses.
2. Special water use without a permit, inappropriate use of water resources, exceeding the permitted volume of water use, failure to comply with the approved water regime and other conditions of special water use -shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of eight hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. The acts provided for in parts one and two of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of two hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of four hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of six hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 281. Original section/article: 141. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 282. Original section/article: 142. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the right of the state ownership to forests
Buy and sell, giving, pledge, illegal engagement and exchange of fields of the forest fund, as well as illegal reassignment of the right to carry out forest uses violating the right of the state ownership to forests, shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of seventy, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 283. Original section/article: 143. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the right of the state ownership to animal and plant world
1. Illegal reassignment of the right of using objects of animal world, as well as commission of other transactions violating the right of the state ownership to animal world in a direct or latent form, as well as illegal use of objects of the plant world in conservations and on other especially protected natural areas, the use of which requires obtainment of permission, shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of seventy, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Illegal assignment of the right to use the plant world, as well as the commission of other transactions that directly or indirectly violate the right of state ownership of the plant world, as well as illegal use of objects of the plant world, the use of which requires permission or notification, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 284. Original section/article: 143. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 285. Original section/article: 144. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal connection, use of energy or waters
Footnote.

Section 286. Original section/article: 144. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 287. Original section/article: 145. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection and use of objects of historical and cultural heritage 
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection and use of objects of historical and cultural heritage, committed in the form of:
1) violations of the conditions for maintaining a monument of history and culture, prescribed in the protection obligations;
2) violations of the rules for establishing structures of monumental art;
3) illegal movement and alteration of the monument of history and culture;
4) failure to carry out archaeological work to identify objects of historical and cultural heritage during the development of territories before the allotment of land plots;
5) carrying out works that may pose a threat to the existence of objects of historical and cultural heritage;
6) violations of the regime of land use within protected zones, zones of regulation of development and zones of a protected natural landscape of monuments of history and culture;
7) violations of the conditions for carrying out scientific restoration work on historical and cultural monuments and the conditions for carrying out archaeological work shall, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship - in the amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of work performed.
Footnote.

Section 288. Original section/article: 145. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2019 № 289-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 289. Original section/article: 146. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Passage on sowings or plantings
Passage on sowings or plantings on a mechanical transport vehicle, animal transport shall –
entail a notification or a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 290. Original section/article: 147. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of sowings, hayricks, spoiling or destruction of harvests of gathered agricultural crops being in a field, damage of plantings
1. Damage of sowings, hayricks, spoiling or destruction of harvests of gathered agricultural crops being in a field or damage of plantings of agricultural organizations independently from their legal organizational form, peasant or farm enterprises, personal subsidiary husbandries by livestock or birds, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction provided by a part one of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on civil servants – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.

Section 291. Original section/article: 147-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Intentional destruction or damage of someone else's property 
1. Intentional destruction or damage to someone else's property, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of five to twenty days.
2. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
shall entail administrative arrest for a period of twenty to thirty days.
3. The action provided for in part two of this Article, committed by a person to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 292. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code does not apply,
shall entail a fine in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 13 is supplemented by

Section 293. Original section/article: 147-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 294. Original section/article: 148. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of terms for return of the state nature grants
Violation of the terms of return of state natural grants, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of investments, -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 295. Original section/article: 148. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 296. Original section/article: 149. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment and (or) improper fulfillment of obligations on ensuring antiterrorist protection of an object vulnerable in terrorist relation 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 297. Original section/article: 149. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.05.2020 № 325-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of six calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Non-fulfillment and (or) improper fulfillment of obligations by the proprietor, owner or the head or other official of the object vulnerable in terrorist relation, or by a subject of security activities that has concluded an agreement on the provision of security services for an object vulnerable to terrorist, obligations to ensure the anti-terrorist protection of the object, shall –
entail a fine on individuals or civil servants in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on individuals or officials in amount of two hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of activities or separate types of activity for a period up to three months or without it.
Footnote.

Section 298. Original section/article: 149. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 13.05.2020 № 325-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of six calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 299. Original section/article: 150. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Advertising of activity of financial (investment) pyramids 
Production, distribution and placement of advertising of financial (investment) pyramid activities, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offense, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices, for officials - in the amount of one hundred and seventy, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of three hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of mass media production (broadcasting) for up to three months.
Footnote.

Section 300. Original section/article: 150. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2022 № 140-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 №95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 14. Administrative offenses in the field of entrepreneurial activity, as well as rehabilitation, restoration of solvency and bankruptcy
Footnote. The title of Chapter 14 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 301. Original section/article: 151. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for outflow or dispatch of raw materials, food commodities and industrial products beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of the rules for outflow or dispatch of raw materials, food commodities, industrial products beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium- entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of thirty-five monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with or without confiscation of raw materials or goods.
Footnote.

Section 302. Original section/article: 151. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law or the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 303. Original section/article: 152. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for acceptance of raw materials, food and industrial goods for dispatch beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote.

Section 304. Original section/article: 152. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 305. Original section/article: 153. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal entrepreneurship
Engagement in prohibited types of entrepreneurial activity, if this action causes heavy damage to a citizen, organization or the state or connected with deriving revenue in a large amount or production, storage, transfer or selling of sub-excise goods in a considerable amount, if these actions do not contain signs of criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of inflicted damage, of a sum of derived revenue and cost of sub-excise goods received in a result of illegal entrepreneurship.
Note. 
1. In Articles 153 and 155 of this Code, damage caused to a citizen in an amount not exceeding two thousand monthly calculation indices or damage caused to an organisation or the State in an amount not exceeding ten thousand monthly calculation indices shall be considered major damage.
2. Income in a large amount in Articles 153 and 155 of this Code shall be income the amount thereof does not exceed ten thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. In this Article, a significant amount shall be recognised as a quantity of goods, the value of which does not exceed two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 306. Original section/article: 153. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be brought into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 307. Original section/article: 154. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Engagement in entrepreneurial activity by a person for whom the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan prohibit such activity
Footnote. The heading of

Section 308. Original section/article: 154. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Engaging in entrepreneurial activity by a person for whom the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan prohibit such activity, – 
shall entail a fine on natural persons in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of objects and (or) instruments of administrative offences and (or) income (dividends), money, securities obtained as a result of the commission of the offence.
Footnote.

Section 309. Original section/article: 154. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 310. Original section/article: 155. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal banking activity
Carrying out of banking activity (banking operations) without registration or without special permission (license) in cases when such permission (license) is compulsory, that inflicted heavy damage to a citizen, organization or the state or connected with deriving revenues in a large amount, if this action does not contain the signs of criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of inflicted damage, of a sum of derived revenue received in a result of illegal activity.

Section 311. Original section/article: 156. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on culture
1. Violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on culture committed in a form of:
1) distribution of motion pictures in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without distribution certificate for a motion picture;
2) non-informing audience in established manner on age category of a motion picture;
3) non-compliance with established time upon distribution of motion pictures with age categories "18+" and "21+"; 
4) non-provision of information and (or) provision of distorted information on motion pictures by organizations screening motion pictures to the Unified Automated Information System for monitoring motion pictures;
5) non-compliance with order and conditions of temporary export of cultural values;
6) not providing a compulsory free copy of publication to national libraries and the National state book chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 312. Original section/article: 156. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2017 № 60-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 213-VІ dated 03.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 313. Original section/article: 156-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection of children from information harmful to their health and development 
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection of children from information harmful to their health and development, committed in the form of:
1) distribution of printed periodical publications without a sign of age category; 
2) non-compliance with established time upon distribution by means of TV and radio broadcasting of information products containing information related to age category "from 18 years";
3) distribution by means of TV and radio broadcasting information products without indicating the sign of age category or without reporting age category at the beginning of a television or radio program, as well as at each resumption after its interruption, –
entail a notification.
2. Distribution of audiovisual and (or) printed products without a sign of age category –
entail a notification.
3. The act provided by part one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organization – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 14 is supplemented by

Section 314. Original section/article: 156-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 170-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 315. Original section/article: 157. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Knowingly false advertisement 
Use of knowingly false information by an advertiser in advertisement that misleads the consumer regarding goods, works and services, as well as their producers, executors or sellers – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 316. Original section/article: 157. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is provided in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 317. Original section/article: 158. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unlawful use of another's trade mark, service mark, geographical indication and appellation of origin of goods
Footnote. The title of

Section 318. Original section/article: 158. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Illegal use of another's trademark, service mark, geographical indication, appellation of origin of goods or designations similar to them to the extent of confusion for homogeneous goods or services, excluding cases related to the exhaustion of the exclusive right to a trademark, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for individuals, thirty for small businesses or non-profit organisations, forty for medium-sized businesses and eighty for large businesses, with confiscation of goods containing an illegal image of a trademark, service mark, geographical indication, appellation of origin of goods or designations for homogeneous goods or services similar to them to the extent of confusion.
Note. The infringing goods, confiscated in accordance with this Article shall be subject to destruction in the manner provided by

Section 319. Original section/article: 795. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, with the exception of cases when introduction of such goods into circulation shall be necessary in the public interest and shall not breach the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection of consumers' rights (pursuant to the removal from the goods and its packaging of an illegally used trademark or designation confusingly similar to it).
Footnote.

Section 320. Original section/article: 158. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law № 365-V of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.10.2015 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 161-VI dated 20.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 321. Original section/article: 159. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Monopolistic activity
1.Anticompetitive agreements of market entities prohibited by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminal offense, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of three, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, with a confiscation of monopoly income received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, no more than for one year.
2. Anticompetitive coordinated actions of market entities prohibited by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminal offense, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of three, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, with a confiscation of monopoly income received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, no more than for one year.
3. Abuse by market entities of their dominant or monopolistic position, by establishing, maintaining monopoly high (low) or monopsony low prices prohibited by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions shall not contain elements of criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine on subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of three, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, with a confiscation of monopoly income received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, no more than for one year. 
3-1. Abuse by market entities of their dominant or monopolistic position, with the exception of establishing, maintaining monopoly high (low) or monopsony low prices prohibited by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions shall not contain elements of criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine on subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of three, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity.
4. The actions provided by parts one, two, three and 3-1 of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of ten percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, with a confiscation of monopoly income received in a result of carrying out of the monopolistic activity, no more than for one year.
5. Coordination of economic activity of market entities by individuals and (or) legal entities that may lead, leading or having lead to any form of anticompetitive agreements of market entities prohibited by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of three hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
6. The action provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of three hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note.
Market entity that committed administrative infraction in the form of anticompetitive agreement or anticompetitive coordinated actions shall be released from administrative liability upon cumulative compliance with the following conditions:
1) at the time, when a market entity applies to the antimonopoly body o anticompetitive agreements or anticompetitive coordinated actions, the antimonopoly body did not receive the information on these anticompetitive agreements or anticompetitive coordinated actions from other sources;
2) market entity takes urgent measures on termination of own participation in anticompetitive agreements or anticompetitive coordinated actions;
3) market entity informs full information on the facts of anticompetitive agreements or anticompetitive coordinated actions during all the investigation from the date of application;
4) market entity compensates damage to consumers on a voluntary basis inflicted in a result of commission of anticompetitive agreements or anticompetitive coordinated actions.
Footnote.

Section 322. Original section/article: 159. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 323. Original section/article: 160. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state monopoly
1. Non-compliance of restrictions by a subject of state monopoly established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state monopoly, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Carrying out of activity related to the scope of the state monopoly by the unauthorized person shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of objects and (or) tools of committing an administrative offense or without it.
Footnote.

Section 324. Original section/article: 160. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 325. Original section/article: 161. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal actions of market entities upon economic concentration
1. Economic concentration of market entities without receipt of agreement of the antimonopoly body in case if such agreement is required, non-fulfillment of requirements and obligations by market entities participating in economic concentration, by whom the decision on giving the agreement for economic concentration is conditioned, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-provision or untimely provision of a notification to the antimonopoly body on committed economic concentration in case if existence of such notification is required, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 326. Original section/article: 162. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of a prescription of the antimonopoly body. Violation of obligations on provision of information and creation of obstacles to access to premises and in a territory
Non-fulfillment of a prescription or fulfillment not in a full measure, non-provision of information or provision of information not in a full measure to the antimonopoly body within established terms, provision of inaccurate and (or) false information to the antimonopoly body, creation of obstacles to civil servants of the antimonopoly body prosecuting the investigation to access to premises and in a territory, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred and sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 327. Original section/article: 162. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 328. Original section/article: 163. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Anticompetitive actions (inaction) of state, local executive bodies, organizations, endowed by the government with functions to regulate the activity of market entities, unfair competition
Footnote. Title of

Section 329. Original section/article: 163. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
1. Anticompetitive actions (inaction) of state, local executive bodies, organizations, endowed by the state with functions to regulate the activity of market entities, shall -
entail a fine on officials in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Unfair competition shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. The action provided by a part two of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 330. Original section/article: 163. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).

Section 331. Original section/article: 163-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Coordination by organizers of procurement of goods, procurement operators and bidding activities of procurement suppliers, bidders 
1. Coordination by the organizers of procurement of goods, procurement operators and bidding activities of procurement suppliers and bidders, if such action leads or may lead to prevention, restriction or elimination of competition and shall not contain elements of criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices. 
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 14 is supplemented by

Section 332. Original section/article: 163-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 333. Original section/article: 164. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on natural monopolies
Footnote. Title of

Section 334. Original section/article: 164. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
1. Failure by a natural monopoly entity to provide information, report and notification of established forms to authorized bodies responsible for the management of natural monopolies, informatization and communications, civil aviation, and the protection and use of water resources, also provision of information, report and notification of established forms in violation of established deadlines –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred and forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions (omission) committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction provided by a part one of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure by persons engaged in natural monopoly- related activities to submit to the authorized body and the authorized body in the protection and use of the water fund of applications and documents, information on inclusion in the State Register of natural monopoly entities within fifteen calendar days from the date of commencement of this activity in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation on natural monopolies, –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred percent of a sum of the revenue (profit), received as a result of an administrative offense.
4. Failure by a natural monopoly entity to comply with restrictions, also failure to perform or improper performance by a natural monopoly entity of obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on natural monopolies, with the exception of the obligation to provide authorized bodies exercising management in the natural monopolies, information technology and communications, civil aviation, protection and use of water resources, of information, reports and notifications of established forms, -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred and eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred and twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of a thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. An action (inaction), provided in part four of this Article, which entailed the receipt of the revenue (profit), shall -
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of ten percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction.
Note. The revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction shall be regarded as the difference between the revenue (profit) received by a subject of natural monopoly, and the revenue (profit) that the subject of natural monopoly should receive upon compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 335. Original section/article: 164. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect on 01.01.2025); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 336. Original section/article: 165. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure for sales (disposal) of electric energy
1. Sale (sale) by an energy-producing organization of electric energy exceeding the selling price of electric energy, with the exception of cases of sale (sale) at spot auctions (no more than ten percent of the volumes of electric energy generated by such organizations for a calendar month), on the balancing market, for export and at centralized auctions of electric energy to digital miners within the established quotas determined by the system operator, –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of ten percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction.
2. Sale (disposal) of electric energy by energy producing organization to individuals and legal entities that are not the subjects of wholesale and (or) retail market, with the exception of cases of exporting electric energy, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred percent of the sum of the revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction.
3. Illegal acquisition (purchase) of electric energy by energy producing organization from another energy producing organization, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred percent of payment for electric energy being acquired (purchased) in a result of commission of administrative infraction.
4. Illegal sale (disposal) of electric energy by energy producing organization to another energy producing organization, and equally its illegal acquisition (purchase) from another energy producing organization shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred percent of a sum of payment for electric energy being sold (disposed), equally as acquired (purchased) in a result of commission of administrative infraction.
Note.
1. The revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction shall be regarded as:
1) according to part one of this Article: the difference between the revenue (profit) received by energy producing organization, with the exception of cases provided by this Article, and the revenue (profit) calculated respectively on limiting, calculation, individual tariffs of electric energy;
2) according to parts one, three and four of this Article: all the income (profit) received in a result of violation of prohibition for selling (disposing) electric energy established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry.
2. Composition of revenue (profit) shall include the cost of sold (disposed) electric energy, but not paid on a date of drawing up the protocol on administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 337. Original section/article: 165. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023).

Section 338. Original section/article: 166. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of obligations by a subject of socially significant market
1. Non-provision of information by a subject of socially significant market on selling prices with attachment of substantiating materials, confirming the level of price, financial reporting in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accounting and financial reporting, as well as information on the volumes of production (sale), the level of profitability and selling prices of monopolistically produced (sold) goods (works, services) within the terms established by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as provision of inaccurate and (or) incomplete information to the authorized body, carrying out management in the spheres of natural monopolies, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-execution of an investment program (project), recorded in marginal price by a subject of socially significant market, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship, on subjects of large entrepreneurship in amount of ten percent of the sums, not used to implement investment programs (projects).
3. Non-fulfillment of obligation by a subject of socially significant market on return the revenue (profit) received and not used for the implementation of investment programs (projects), recorded in marginal prices, to consumers or in case of impossibility to establish a complete list of consumers by reducing the level of marginal price for the forthcoming period in accordance with the manner of price formation, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of sixty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred percent of the sum of the revenue (profit), received as a result of committing an administrative offense.
4. Non-fulfillment of obligation by a subject of socially significant market on return the revenue (profit) received as a result of an unreasonable exceeding of marginal price to consumers or in case of impossibility to establish a complete list of consumers by reducing the level of marginal price for the forthcoming period in accordance with the manner of price formation, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of sixty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred percent of the sum of the revenue (profit), received as a result of committing an administrative offense.
5. Increase in price and sale of goods (works, services) by a subject of socially significant market without submission of notification on the forthcoming price increase to the authorized body, carrying out management in the spheres of natural monopolies, in terms, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as non-reduction of the current or projected price to the level price, determined by the authorized body, carrying out management in the spheres of natural monopolies, in the manner established by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship, on subjects of large entrepreneurship in amount of ten percent of the revenue (profit) received as a result of committing an administrative offense.
Notes.
1. Revenue (profit), received as a result of committing an administrative offense, shall be regarded as:
1) according to part two of this Article: the difference between the revenue (profit), received by a subject of socially significant market and the revenue (profit), calculated at a price that was in effect before the increase, or at a price, the level of which is determined by the authorized body, carrying out management in the spheres of natural monopolies;
2) according to part three of this Article: the difference between the revenue (profit), received by a subject of socially significant market for implementation of investment programs (projects) through the application of marginal price and the revenue (profit), used to implement investment programs (projects);
3) according to part four of this Article: the difference between the revenue (profit), received by a subject of socially significant market and the revenue (profit), formed, based on the level of marginal price.
2. The revenue (profit) should include the cost of sold goods (works, services), but not paid on the day of drawing up the protocol on administrative offence. 
Footnote.

Section 339. Original section/article: 166. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).

Section 340. Original section/article: 167. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with the procedure for price formation by a subject of socially significant market 
Footnote. Title of

Section 341. Original section/article: 167. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
Non-compliance with the procedure for price formation, established by the authorized body, carrying out management in the spheres of natural monopolies, by a subject of socially significant market, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 342. Original section/article: 167. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).

Section 343. Original section/article: 168. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to implement the investment program by an energy producing or energy transmitting organization 
1. Failure to comply with, as well as failure to implement or improper implementation by an energy producing or energy transmitting organization of the activities of the approved investment program -
entails a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for small business entities - in the amount of two hundred and eighty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of three hundred and twenty, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure by an energy producing or energy transmitting organization to comply with an order made by the authorized body exercising management in the field of natural monopolies on the implementation of the investment program -
entails a fine in the amount of ten percent of the amounts received from consumers and not used for the purposes of implementing the investment program.
3. An action (inaction) provided for in part one of this article, resulting in the receipt of income (revenue), -
entails a fine in the amount of twenty percent of the income (revenue) received (obtained) as a result of committing an administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 344. Original section/article: 168. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 345. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the state regulation of production and turnover of biofuel
1. Excess of quota standard by producers of biofuel for acquisition of food raw materials for the following its processing into biofuel, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred seventy monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred ninety, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand eight hundred twenty monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of products produced from the food raw materials in amount of exceeded quota, and suspension of activity on production of biofuel for the term up to three months.
3. Use of wheat of the classes 1 and 2 as a food raw material upon production of biofuel shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Sale of biofuel, the composition of which does not conform to the composition established by the technical regulations shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Production of turnover of undenatured bioethanol, with the exception of cases of its delivery to the plant on production of biofuel or to the oil processing plant for processing into other types of biofuel, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Carrying out of production of biofuel by two and more producers of biofuel at one and the same plant on production of biofuel, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Production of biofuel by producers of the biofuel without production passport, without control instruments for recording the volumes of producing the biofuel or during their state of defect, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred thirty monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of products produced during this period.
8. Acceptance of biofuel of food raw materials by producers that is genetically modified source (object) or containing genetically modified sources (objects) without scientific substantiated confirmation of their safety and conduct of their state registration, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of nine hundred forty monthly calculation indices.
9. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020). 
10. Sales of biofuels by biofuel producers to persons not engaged in the production of biofuels and (or) compounding of petroleum products, and (or) production of products of chemical and related industries, excluding the export of biofuels in the presence of relevant documents, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of nine hundred ninety monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of biofuel in a volume equal to the sold batch.
11. Sale of produced biofuel by biofuel producers for storage to persons who are not participants of the biofuel market and producers of products of chemical and related industries, excluding export of biofuel in the presence of relevant documents, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of biofuel in a volume equal to the sold batch.
12. Storage of biofuels by persons who are not biofuel market participants and (or) who do not produce biofuels and (or) compounding of petroleum products, and (or) production of chemical and related industries, save for the export of biofuels in the presence of relevant documents, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred thirty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred sixty monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of biofuel in a volume equal to the sold batch.
13. The actions provided by parts seven, eight, ten, eleven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
– entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand three hundred monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of biofuel in a relevant volume.
14. The action provided by a part twelve of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 346. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be implemented sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 347. Original section/article: 170. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gas and gas supply 
1. Non-provision of details by a subject of gas supply systems on production, transportation (transfer), storage, shipping and sale of sales, liquefied petroleum and (or) liquefied natural gas, as well as provision of details with violation of established terms – 
entail a warning.
1-1. The actions, provided in part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall- 
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – inn amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-compliance with restrictions on operation of objects of the gas supply systems established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gas and gas supply, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of procedure for recording and (or) sale of commercial and (or) liquefied petroleum gas, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gas and gas supply, with the exception of cases, provided for by part ten of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of seventy-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of a priority right of the state by a subsurface user to acquisition of raw and (or) commercial gas, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. Violation of a priority right of the state by an owner of an object of the gas supply systems to acquisition of objects of the unified commercial gas supply system, shares in a right of common property to objects of the unified commercial gas supply system and (or) blocks of shares (participatory interests) of legal entities-owners of the objects of the unified commercial gas supply system, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of thousand monthly calculation indices.
6. Non-compliance with established technical operating regimes of the objects of unified commercial gas supply system shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. The action provided by a part three of this Article that lead receipt of the revenue (profit), shall –
shall entail a penalty for legal entities - in the amount of thirty per cent of the income (proceeds) received as a result of committing an administrative offence.
8. Was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 348. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
9. Was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 349. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
) 
10. Illegal sale of liquefied petroleum gas outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offense, shall-
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of revenues, received as a result of committing an administrative offense.
11. Was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 350. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
) 
12. The action provided for by part ten of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, shall – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of five hundred for small enterprises, eight hundred for medium enterprises and one thousand three hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises, with confiscation of proceeds derived from the commission of an administrative offence.
Footnote.

Section 351. Original section/article: 170. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.04.2016 № 506-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 352. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall apply upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 353. Original section/article: 171. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excess of limit prices of selling oil products, commercial liquefied petroleum gas to which the state regulation of prices is established
1. Excess of limit price of retail sale of oil products by retail sellers of oil products established I accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the state regulation of production and turnover of separate types of oil products, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Excess of limit prices of wholesale trade of sales gas in the domestic market of the Republic of Kazakhstan or limit prices of liquefied petroleum gas sold under the plan for supply of liquefied petroleum gas in the domestic market of the Republic of Kazakhstan outside electronic trading platforms by persons carrying out trade of sales gas or liquefied petroleum gas established in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gas and gas supply, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. The actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred percent of the revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction, with suspension of the validity term or deprivation of accreditation certificate.
Note. The revenue (profit) received in a result of commission of administrative infraction shall be regarded as the difference between the revenue (profit) received by a person that committed the administrative infraction, and the revenue (profit) that this person should receive upon compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 354. Original section/article: 171. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 173-VI dated 04.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 355. Original section/article: 172. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry and in the field of thermal power engineering 
Footnote. The title of

Section 356. Original section/article: 172. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Failure to publish, untimely, unreliable or incomplete publication by an energy producing organization in mass media of information on the volume and directions of investments or fulfillment of investment obligations stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry, -
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-provision, untimely, inaccurate or incomplete provision of reports on expenses for production and sale of electric energy and on volumes of production and sale of electric energy provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry by energy producing organization, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to provide, untimely, inaccurate or incomplete provision by energy producing, energy transmitting organizations, heat supply entities of information requested by state bodies, necessary for the exercise of their powers stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry and in the field of thermal power engineering -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-fulfillment of investment obligations by energy producing organization determined by the agreement, with the exception of cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of ten percent of the sums not used for realization of investment obligations provided by the agreement.
5. Illegal restriction and (or) cutoff of electric and (or) heat energy shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy-five monthly calculation indices.
6. Refusal of energy producing organization from conclusion of individual contract of energy supply with a consumer, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 357. Original section/article: 172. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 №95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 358. Original section/article: 173. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal interference in entrepreneurial activity
1. Illegal interference of officials of public authorities, local executive bodies, entities of quasi-public sector, natural monopolies, apart from cases envisaged by

Section 359. Original section/article: 164. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof, as well as other organisations, regardless of their form of ownership, in the activities of individual entrepreneurs or legal entities by issuing illegal acts, giving illegal instructions, taking illegal decisions, as well as committing actions (inaction) that hinder lawful entrepreneurial activity, if these acts do not contain signs of a criminally punishable offence –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act envisaged by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, - 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 360. Original section/article: 173. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 361. Original section/article: 174. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bribery of participants and organizers of professional sporting competitions and entertaining commercial tenders
1. Bribery of sportsmen, sport judges, trainers, team leaders and other participants or organizers of professional sporting competitions, and equally organizers or award panels of entertaining commercial tenders for the purpose of influencing on results of these competitions or tenders, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Illegal receipt of money, securities or another property by sportsmen, transferred to them for the purpose of influencing on results of competitions, and equally illegal use of the services of property character by the sportsmen, rendered to them for the same purposes shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Illegal receipt of money, securities or another property, illegal use of services of property character by sports judges, trainers, team leaders and other participants or organizers of professional sports competitions, and equally by organizers or award panels of entertaining commercial tenders for the purposes mentioned in a part three of this Article, shall –
entail a fine in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 362. Original section/article: 174. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 363. Original section/article: 175. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the procedure for exercising state control of business entities
Footnote. The title of

Section 364. Original section/article: 175. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Violation of the procedure for conducting state control of business entities, including:
1) absence of grounds for preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection;
2) absence of grounds for conducting an investigation envisaged by paragraph 3 of

Section 365. Original section/article: 144-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) absence of an act on assignment of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection;
4) absence of notification, as well as failure to comply with the terms of notification of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection;
5) violation of restrictions stipulated by

Section 366. Original section/article: 151. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan when exercising preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection;
6) violation of the investigation procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) breach of the procedure of product sampling envisaged by

Section 367. Original section/article: 149. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) infringement of the frequency of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection for compliance with the requirements specified in the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved under

Section 368. Original section/article: 141. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9) failure to submit to the entity under control and supervision the act on appointment of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection;
10) appointment by public authorities of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection on issues that are not within their competence;
11) performing preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection without registering the act of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection with the public authority responsible, within its competence, for activities in the field of state legal statistics and special records, when such registration is mandatory;
12) infringement of the terms of preventive control with a visit to the entity (‘facility’) under control and supervision, inspection and investigation envisaged by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13) conducting preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision without preliminary preventive control without visiting the entity (facility) under the control and supervision pursuant to paragraph 5 of

Section 369. Original section/article: 131. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
14) infringement of the requirements of paragraph 7 of

Section 370. Original section/article: 141. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in terms of non-compliance with the minimum permissible threshold of the number of entities (facilities) under control and supervision, in respect of which preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) under control and supervision and (or) inspection is exercised, in the absence of an information system for risk assessment and management;
15) delivery to the entity subject to control and supervision of an act on the results of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) subject to control and supervision and (or) inspection later than the deadline for the end of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) subject to control and supervision and (or) inspection specified in the act on the appointment of preventive control with a visit to the entity (facility) subject to control and supervision and (or) inspection (an additional act on the extension of the deadline, if any), –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for an official.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on a civil servant in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 371. Original section/article: 175. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 372. Original section/article: 175-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unjustified carrying out of other forms of control and supervision with visiting of subjects of private entrepreneurship
Footnote.

Section 373. Original section/article: 175-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be brought into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 374. Original section/article: 176. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal actions in rehabilitation and bankruptcy of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs 
Footnote. The title of

Section 375. Original section/article: 176. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Concealing a property or property obligations, details on the property, its size, location or another information on the property, transfer of the property to another possession, alienation or destruction of the property, and equally concealing, destruction, falsification of bookkeeping and (or) accounting documentation or other documents, reflecting economic activity, if these actions committed by an individual entrepreneur - a debtor, a founder (participant), an official of a legal entity - a debtor, as well as a temporary or bankrupt or rehabilitation manager, if these actions committed during rehabilitation and bankruptcy and not have the signs of criminally punishable action, shall, –
entail a fine on an individual in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Illegal satisfaction of the property claims of individual creditors by an an individual entrepreneur - a debtor, a founder (participant), an official of a legal entity - a debtor, as well as a temporary or bankrupt or rehabilitation manager knowingly to the detriment of other creditors, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminally punishable action, shall –
entail a fine on an individual in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 376. Original section/article: 176. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 377. Original section/article: 176-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal actions during restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who are not registered as an individual entrepreneur 
1. Concealment of property or property obligations, information about property, its size, location or other information about property, transfer of property to other ownership, alienation or destruction of property, as well as concealment, destruction, falsification of title documents, if these actions are committed by a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, not registered as an individual entrepreneur, in the procedure for restoring solvency, out–of-court or judicial bankruptcy, -
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Unlawful satisfaction of property claims of individual creditors by a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan who is not registered as an individual entrepreneur, knowingly to the detriment of other creditors in the procedure of restoring solvency or judicial bankruptcy –
entails a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 14 is supplemented by

Section 378. Original section/article: 176-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 379. Original section/article: 177. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy by a temporary manager
1. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to represent a conclusion on financial status of a debtor to the court, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to conduct inventory of a property mass of a bankrupt and (or) to represent a report on the inventory, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to direct a notice to the authorized body in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy on initiation of a case on bankruptcy and procedure for applying requirements by the creditors for its placing on a website, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
5. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to represent current and requested information to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy on a course of carrying out the procedure for bankruptcy, shall –
entail a warning.
6. Untimely notification of creditors on decision adopted following the results of considering the requirements applied in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
7. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation on notifying the creditors on a date, time and place of holding the meeting of creditors, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
8. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
9. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to accept from the officials of the bankrupt the constituent documents, accounting documentation, documents of title to the property of the bankrupt, seals (if any), stamps, material and other values belonging to the bankrupt, shall -
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
10. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to transfer constituent documents, accounting documents, documents of title to the property of the bankrupt (debtor), seals (if any), stamps, material and other valuables belonging to the bankrupt (debtor), upon transfer of powers from the interim manager to a bankruptcy manager or a debtor in the event of cancellation of a court decision on declaring the debtor bankrupt, shall -
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
11. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to provide information on the basis of a written request of a creditor and an individual entrepreneur - bankrupt, the owner of property (the authorized authority), the founder (participant) of a legal entity – bankrupt, shall -
entail a warning.
12. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to form a register of creditors' claims, shall -
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
13. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
14. Selling of property, the value of which will significantly decrease (perishable goods, livestock and other goods requiring urgent sale) during the period before the appointment of a bankruptcy manager, in violation of the procedure established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy", shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
15. Actions (inaction) provided by parts one, two and twelve of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall -
entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
16. Actions (inaction) provided by parts three, five, six, seven and eleven of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall -
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
17. Actions (inaction) provided by parts nine, ten and fourteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall-
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 380. Original section/article: 177. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 381. Original section/article: 178. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of established procedure for conduct of public biddings, auctions and tenders
Violation of established procedure for conduct of public biddings, auctions and tenders that inflicted heavy damage to the property owner, organizer of biddings or auctions, customer or another economic entity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. Heavy damage in this Article shall be considered as the damage inflicted to an individual to the sum one hundredfold exceeding the monthly calculation index, or the damage inflicted to an organization or the state to the sum, five hundredfold exceeding monthly calculation index.

Section 382. Original section/article: 179. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy by a bank manager
1. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to conduct inventory and (or) represent a report on inventory to the Committee of creditors, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to ensure security and control of the property of a bankrupt, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to specify requirements on recovery of a debt from the persons having debts before a bankrupt in a judicial procedure, with the exception of cases established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to represent current information to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy on the course of carrying out the procedure for bankruptcy, shall – 
entail a warning.
5. Non-notification or improper notification of a creditor on a date, time and place of holding meetings of and committee of creditors in the procedure of bankruptcy, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
7. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to draw up a plan for the sale of bankruptcy property or to implement it, shall -
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
8. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to carry out settlements with creditors after the receipt of money in favor of the debtor, as well as settlements with creditors in violation of the established procedure for satisfying creditors' claims, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices. 
9. Non-reporting on available data to law enforcement agencies indicating the presence of signs of deliberate bankruptcy, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
10. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations to detect transactions committed by a debtor or a person authorized by him (her) with violation of requirements provided by the civil legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On rehabilitation and bankruptcy”, and non-specification of requirements on recognizing them invalid or return of the property in a judicial proceeding to the property mass of a bankrupt, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
11. Payment of administrative expenses without a decision of the creditors' committee, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
12. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations to transfer constitutive documents, accounting documentation, documents of title to the property of the bankrupt, seals (if any), stamps, material and other values belonging to the bankrupt, newly appointed bankrupt manager - upon removal (release) of a bankruptcy manager, to a debtor or a rehabilitation manager - upon cancellation of a court decision on declaring the debtor bankrupt, to a buyer - upon sale of a bankrupt enterprise, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
13. Non-representation, untimely presentation or presentation of final report that does not conform to requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy to the court, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
14. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations to provide the requested information to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall – 
entail a warning.
15. Failure to notify or untimely notice of a creditor on the course of carrying out the procedure for bankruptcy, financial status of the debtor on the basis of his (her) written request, shall – 
entail a warning.
16. Untimely application to a creditor on setoff of requirements on the basis of decision of the creditors’ committee, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
17. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations on request of information from the state authorities, individuals and legal entities on a bankrupt, property belonging to him/her (belonged) and copies of confirming documents, shall – 
entail a warning.
18. Non-reference to the court in the cases established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy", with a claim for bringing persons to subsidiary liability and collecting amounts, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
19. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations on provision of a copy of the court act to the creditors’ committee concerning the interests of a bankrupt and his (her) creditors for consideration of the question of appealing, unless otherwise established by the agreement on conducting bankruptcy proceedings with a bankrupt manager, shall, – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
20. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of obligations on acceptance of constituent documents, accounting documents, entitling documents for a bankrupt’s property, seals (if any), stamps, material and other values belonging to the bankrupt, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
21. Untimely sending applications for closing bankrupt bank accounts, destruction of the seal (if any) of a bankrupt to a bank, an organization carrying out certain types of banking operations, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
22. The actions (inaction), provided by parts four, five, fourteen, - seventeen and nineteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, – 
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
23. Actions (inaction) provided by parts three, seven, eight, eleven, twelve, thirteen, twenty and twenty one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
24. Actions (inaction), provided by parts one, two, ten and eighteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
25. Action provided by part nine of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote.

Section 383. Original section/article: 179. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 384. Original section/article: 180. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy by a temporary administrator
1. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to announcements on the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings and procedure for filing claims by creditors to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy for placing on its website, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the procedure for formation of a register of creditors' claims established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to direct an opinion on financial stability of the debtor, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
6. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to consider requirements of the creditors and bring the results of consideration to them, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
7. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to notify the creditors on place and date of holding the creditors’ meeting, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
8. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
9. Actions (inaction), provided by parts one, six and seven of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
10. Actions (inaction) provided by parts two and three of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 385. Original section/article: 180. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 386. Original section/article: 181. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy by a rehabilitation manager
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
3. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to accept a debtor’s property in management and to ensure its protection and control, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of a rehabilitation plan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to provide current information to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy on the course of carrying out the rehabilitative procedure, shall –
entail a warning.
6. Non-notifying or improper notification of a creditor on date, time and place of holding the meeting and creditors committee in rehabilitative procedure, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
7. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to transfer of constituent documents, accounting documents, entitling documents for a bankrupt’s property, seals (if any), stamps, material to the newly appointed rehabilitation manager or bankruptcy manager and other values belonging to the bankrupt, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
8. Commission of transactions outside regular commercial operations not provided by the rehabilitation plan, in a rehabilitative procedure without a consent of the creditors’ meeting, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
9. Non-representation, untimely presentation or presentation of final report to the court that does not conform to requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
10. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
11. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to represent information to a debtor’s creditor on the course of carrying out the activity, financial status of the debtor on the basis of his (her) written request, shall – 
entail a warning.
12. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to provide requested information to the authorized authority in the field of rehabilitation and bankruptcy, shall –– 
entail a warning.
13. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to file a petition in court on introduction of amendments and additions in a rehabilitation plan, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
14. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
15. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to bring the information to the notice of members of the creditors’ committee on financial status, transactions made for the previous month, as well as on provision of information at the request of the creditors' committee, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
16. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to detect transactions committed by a debtor or a person authorized by him (her) with a violation of requirements provided by the civil legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On rehabilitation and bankruptcy”, and non-specification of requirements on recognizing them invalid or return of the property in a judicial proceeding, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
17. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
18. Commission of transactions entailing increase of credit indebtedness, if a total sum of the credit indebtedness that occurred after applying rehabilitative procedure increases five percent of the total sum of the credit indebtedness to the date of introduction of rehabilitative procedure without approval of the creditors’ meeting, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
19. Actions (inaction), provided by parts five, six, eleven and twelve of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
20. Actions (inaction) provided by parts seven, nine and fifteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
21. Actions (inaction) provided by parts three, eighth, thirteenth and sixteenth of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
22. Actions (inaction) provided by parts four and eighteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 387. Original section/article: 181. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 388. Original section/article: 181-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens by a financial manager 
1. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment by the financial manager of the obligations to send to the authorized body in the field of public administration for restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan an announcement on initiation of proceedings on the application of the procedure for restoring solvency or judicial bankruptcy and the procedure for filing claims by creditors, the register of creditors' claims, formed in accordance with the established procedure, for posting on its Internet resource, as well as untimely decision–making based on the results of consideration of the creditors' claims -
entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices. 
2. Non-fulfillment by the financial manager of the obligations to conduct an inventory, property assessment, acceptance from the debtor of title documents for his property, his property into his management, as well as failure to take measures to return the property to the debtor's estate when identifying transactions made by the debtor in violation of the requirements provided for by the civil legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, before the initiation of proceedings on the application of the procedure for restoring solvency or judicial bankruptcy –
entails a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to submit or late submission to the court of the financial manager's opinion, the conclusion on the existence or absence of grounds for termination of the bankrupt's obligations, the final report, as well as the final plan for restoring the debtor's solvency to the court and creditors whose claims are included in the register of creditors' claims –
entails a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices. 
4. Failure to fulfill the obligation to provide information on the progress of the development of the solvency recovery plan to the creditor on the basis of his written request –
entails a warning.
5. Alienation by the financial manager of the debtor's estate, settlements with creditors in violation of the established procedure provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan", as well as the procedure for conducting an electronic auction for the sale of the debtor's property determined by the authorized body in the field of public administration for restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
6. The unlawful satisfaction of the property claims of individual creditors by the financial manager knowingly to the detriment of other creditors, if this action is committed during a judicial bankruptcy and does not contain signs of a criminal offense, –
entails a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Actions (inaction) provided for in parts one and four of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entail a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
8. Actions (inaction) provided for in part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices. 
9. The action (inaction) provided for in part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entails a fine in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
10. The actions provided for in parts five and six of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 14 is supplemented by

Section 389. Original section/article: 181-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 390. Original section/article: 182. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Deliberate bankruptcy 
1. Deliberate bankruptcy of a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur, that is, actions of the founder (participant), an official, a person performing the functions of managing a legal entity, as well as an individual entrepreneur, committed in the personal interests or interests of other persons in order to evade obligations to creditors by alienation or concealment of property for three years before recognition of a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur as bankrupt, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entails a fine on an individual in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, on a legal entity – in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Deliberate bankruptcy of a citizen, that is, actions of a citizen committed within three years prior to the date of his recognition as bankrupt in order to evade fulfillment of obligations to creditors by alienation or concealment of property after the date of occurrence of obligations, non–fulfillment of which is recognized as the basis for bankruptcy, -
entails a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 391. Original section/article: 182. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 392. Original section/article: 183. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
False bankruptcy
Footnote.

Section 393. Original section/article: 183. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 394. Original section/article: 184. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on valuation activity 
1. Late submission or non-submission, as well as submission of unreliable information in the form established by the authorized agency in the field of valuation activity, – 
shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices. 
2. Non-elimination by the Chamber of Evaluators of breaches of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on valuation activity identified during the inspection by the authorized agency in the field of valuation activities, –
shall entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices. 
3. The actions (inactions) committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, provided by part two of this Article, –
shall entail a fine in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 395. Original section/article: 184. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 134-VI dated 10.01.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 396. Original section/article: 185. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation to protect commercial, banking secret, details of credit reports or information from database of creditor histories of a credit bureau
Violation of the obligation to protect details containing commercial, banking secret, details of credit reports or information received from database of creditor histories of a credit bureau without the consent of their owner by a person who became known due to professional or official activity, if this action does not contain the signs of criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 397. Original section/article: 185. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 398. Original section/article: 186. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation to protect secret of insurance or pension savings or secret of extending microcredit
Violation of the obligation to protect details containing secret of insurance or pension savings or secret of extending microcredit without the consent of their owner by a person that became known on them due to professional or official activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 399. Original section/article: 187. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tourist activity
1. Non-presentation, untimely presentation or incomplete presentation of details by persons carrying out touristic activity on special aspects of the travels, dangers that they may face upon travelling mentioned in rules of rendering of touristic services, or non-carrying out of prevention measures oriented to safety ensuring of the tourists, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of seventeen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Rendering of touristic services by persons carrying out the touristic activity without conclusion of written contract for tourist services, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of seventeen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of license validity term.
3. Action (omission) provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
4. Non-provision or untimely provision of information by persons carrying out touristic activity to the state bodies concerned and a family of a tourist on emergency situations with tourists during travels, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
5. Action (omission) provided by a part four of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of seventy five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.

Section 400. Original section/article: 188. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-provision or untimely provision of information on initiation of a case in court on a corporate dispute
Footnote.

Section 401. Original section/article: 188. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the RK Law dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 402. Original section/article: 189. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure and terms for considering references of individuals and legal entities
Footnote.

Section 403. Original section/article: 189. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).
Chapter 15. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD
OF TRADE AND FINANCES

Section 404. Original section/article: 190. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection of consumer rights 
1. False measurement, false weighting, cheating in accounts, false suggestion in respect of application characteristics or quality of goods (work, service) or another consumer fraud by individual entrepreneurs or organizations carrying out trading activity and rendering of services, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided for by part one of this Article committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy-five, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license and suspension or prohibition of activities for up to three years.
3. The actions provided for by part one of this Article that entailed infliction of substantial damage, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy-five, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license or suspension or prohibition of activities for the period of up to three years.
4. Actions provided for by part one of this Article that caused major damage, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy-five, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license or suspension or prohibition of activities for the period of up to three years.
5. Failuire to fulfill by a seller (manufacturer, performer) of obligations on:
1) posting information, in Kazakh and Russian languages, about the contact details of the seller (manufacturer, performer), the authorized body in the field of consumer protection and subjects of pre-trial settlement of consumer disputes, as well as information on the consumer's right to apply to them for the restoration of their violated rights and legitimate interests;
2) ensuring the exchange or return of goods of both proper and inadequate quality within the time period established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on consumer protection;
3) submission of a written response to the claim for the elimination of violations of the rights and legitimate interests of the consumer within the time period established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the protection of consumer rights,–
shall entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, ten for small enterprises, fifteen for medium enterprises and twenty-five for large enterprises.
6. The act provided for by part five of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purposes of this Article, the significant damage shall be recognized to be the amount exceeding one monthly calculation index, a major amount of damage – the amount not less than three monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 405. Original section/article: 190. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 406. Original section/article: 190-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the sale of jewelry and other items made of precious metals and precious stones
1. Violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed in the form of sale of jewelry and other items made of precious metals and precious stones without the presence of a hallmark, as well as an imprint of the nameplate, given by the subject of production of jewelry and other items made of precious metals and precious stones on produced by them jewelry and other items, made of precious metals and precious stones, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall-
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eighty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 407. Original section/article: 190-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2016 № 445-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 408. Original section/article: 191. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for acquisition, storage, recording, transportation and trade of civil and service weapons and cartridges to them
Footnote.

Section 409. Original section/article: 191. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 410. Original section/article: 192. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure for selling special technical means
Sale of special technical means intended for conduct of the special operational-investigative means to persons that do not have the relevant permission, except for the state bodies authorized to carry out operative-investigative activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 411. Original section/article: 193. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on regulation of trading activity
1. Non-provision of required information upon request of a consumer on goods, place of origin, producers, application characteristics, guarantee obligations and procedure for submission of claims, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of two, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of six, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Unlawful use of official document certifying conformance of the goods to safety requirements, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seven, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of goods or without such.
3. Commission of actions (omission) provided by parts one and two of this article repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, with a confiscation of goods or without such.
4. The sale of goods within the Republic of Kazakhstan without stating the price in tenge, or the sale of goods at a price exceeding the stated price, or the failure to state the price of goods in tenge when selling them within the Republic of Kazakhstan under the terms of a public agreement –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of шести, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of ten, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
5. The action provided by part four of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of sixty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 412. Original section/article: 193. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 215-VІ dated 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 413. Original section/article: 194. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal in acceptance of payments with use of charge cards
1. Refusal to accept payments and (or) transfers, using payment cards by an individual entrepreneur or a legal entity, obliged to accept them when carrying out trade activities (performing work, rendering services) on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall -
entail a notification.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 414. Original section/article: 194. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.11.2016 № 26-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).

Section 415. Original section/article: 195. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence of equipment (device) at an individual entrepreneur or legal entity intended for making payments with use of charge cards
1. Absence of equipment (device) at an individual entrepreneur or legal entity being obliged to accept payments with use of charge cards upon carrying out of trading activity (performance of works, rendering of services) in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, intended for making payments with use of charge cards, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.

Section 416. Original section/article: 196. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal trade in goods or other subjects 
Trade in goods and other subjects, the open trade of which is prohibited or restricted by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall – entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 417. Original section/article: 197. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Use of tobacco product brand, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems 
1. Deliberate distribution, exhibition, sale of any goods bearing the mark of a tobacco product other than the tobacco products themselves, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, or any packet, packaging, in which the product is sold or transported, -
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of forty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided for by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty-five, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 418. Original section/article: 197. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 419. Original section/article: 198. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation on information on tobacco and tobacco products
1. Violation of requirements of the legislation on information on tobacco and tobacco products, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 420. Original section/article: 199. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan concerning the sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah blends, tobacco heating systems, energy drinks, and sponsorship of tobacco and tobacco products, as well as the manufacture, sale and distribution of goods imitating tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah blends and tobacco heating systems 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 421. Original section/article: 199. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Breach of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah tobacco blends, tobacco heating systems and energy drinks, unless otherwise specified in Articles 133 and 423-1 of this Code, –
shall lead to a fine of fifteen monthly calculation indices for natural persons, thirty for small business entities and non-profit organisations, fifty for medium-sized business entities, and seventy for large business entities.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Sponsoring of tobacco, tobacco products, as well as production, sale, distribution of goods imitating tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifteen, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty-five, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 422. Original section/article: 199. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2015 № 299-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 423. Original section/article: 200. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on selling alcoholic products
1. Sale of alcoholic products to persons under twenty one years, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of a license.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
3. Retail sale of alcoholic beverages, with the exception of it sales in restaurants, bars and cafes, as well as on passenger aircraft, passenger ships of sea transport, in restaurant carriages of passenger trains:
from 23 to 8 hours of next day;
with ethyl alcohol volume ratio more than thirty percent from 21 to 12 hours of next day, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of a license.
4. The action provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
Footnote.

Section 424. Original section/article: 200. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28. 12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.04.2019 № 249-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 425. Original section/article: 201. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Access restriction of goods to the trade networks or large retail facilities
1. Restriction of access of goods to trade networks or large trade facilities by internal trade entities engaged in the sale of goods through the organisation of a trade network or large trade facilities, manifested in unreasonable refusal to conclude an agreement on the supply of goods, or in the conclusion of an agreement of a knowingly discriminatory nature and containing conditions of:
1) prohibition for a subject of trade activity to conclude the agreements for supply of goods with other subjects of the trade activity carrying out the same activity, as well as with other subjects of trade activity on the same or another conditions;
2) requirement to provide details by a subject of trade activity carrying out supply of goods on concluded contracts with other subjects of trade activity carrying out the same activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 426. Original section/article: 201. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 427. Original section/article: 202. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excess of size of maximum admissible consumer prices to socially significant food commodities 
Footnote.

Section 428. Original section/article: 202. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
to be excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced from 31.12.2025).

Section 429. Original section/article: 203. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sale of goods without documents
1. Sale of goods by individual entrepreneurs and organizations carrying out trade activity without documents containing details on the country of origin, producer, supplier or seller or trustworthy and sufficient information on goods (service) in Kazakh and Russian languages, with the exception of the cases provided by Articles 415 and 416 of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of forty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ninety, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 430. Original section/article: 204. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Trade at undisclosed places
1. Trade outside the places established by a local executive body, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 431. Original section/article: 204-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of trading activities when accepting and selling second hand non-food products
1. The violation by a subject of internal trade of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of trading activities when accepting and selling second hand non-food products, if these actions do not contain elements of a criminally punishable act committed in the form of:
1) sale of second hand non-food products in non-stationary trade facilities, with the exception of non-stationary trade facilities, the places and (or) routes of which are approved by local executive bodies;
2) non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to keep records of accepted and sold second hand non-food products, in the manner determined by the rules of internal trade;
3) violation of the obligation to store information on accepted and sold second hand non-food products for one calendar year, shall –
entail a warning.
2. The acts provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of ten, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 15 was supplemented with

Section 432. Original section/article: 204-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 433. Original section/article: 204-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on regulation of trade activities on organisation of activities of trade markets and large trade facilities
Footnote. Title of

Section 434. Original section/article: 204-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.01.2025 № 155-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on regulation of trade activities by individual entrepreneurs and (or) legal entities, the main activity of which is the provision for rent (use) of trading places in large trading facilities, as well as in trade markets, committed in the form of formed on the material of the conducted research methodological recommendations, techniques and forms of organization of educational process aimed at the development of vocal-choral skills can be used in the work of:
1) absence of approved regulations for the operation of a large trade facility, trade market, including its working hours for internal trade entities and employees of their administration;
2) failure to provide equal access to trade facilities and trade infrastructure to the entities of domestic trade;
3) absence of an approved list of additional services offered by large trade facilities, trade markets to the entities of domestic trade (if any);
4) absence of registration in the information system, as well as access to it for implementation of its activities via the information system;
5) absence of the concluded lease agreement in the information system, as well as failure to amend it;
6) absence of modernisation of trade infrastructure, as well as failure to create appropriate conditions for its implementation;
7) absence of a sales zone for wholesale and retail trade on the territory of a large trade facility, trade market, as well as its delimitation;
8) failure toorganise trade from mobile stalls on trade markets in the presence of technical conditions on their territory;
9) failure to ensure the acceptance of payments for the lease (use) of a trading place via the information system in a cashless manner or by issuing an invoice for payment via second-tier banks – 
shall entail a warning.
2. The actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction shall – 
entail a fine in the amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 15 was supplemented with

Section 435. Original section/article: 204-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 10.01.2025 № 155-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 436. Original section/article: 204-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Exceeding the amount of remuneration from the cost of purchased food products when concluding an agreement 
for the supply of food products or illegal demand for remuneration in connection with the purchase of socially significant food products
1. Exceeding by the subject of internal trade, carrying out activities in selling goods through the organization of a trading network or large trading facilities, a five percent amount of remuneration from the cost of purchased food products when concluding an agreement for the supply of food products with a supplier of food products or illegal demand by them of remuneration in connection with the purchase of socially significant food products, shall –
entail a warning. 
2. The actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 15 was supplemented with

Section 437. Original section/article: 204-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Note! 
The title of

Section 438. Original section/article: 204-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force on 01.01.2026).

Section 439. Original section/article: 204-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Exceeding the amount of the trade markup for socially significant food products
The first indent of part 1 is amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.01.2026). 
1. Exceeding by the subject of internal trade of the amount of the trade markup for socially significant food products, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of trading activities, shall –
entail a penalty in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, small business entities, thirty-five for medium-sized business entities and one hundred and fifty for large business entities.
2. The act provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a penalty in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for individuals, small business entities, seventy for medium-sized business entities and three hundred for large business entities.
Footnote. Chapter 15 was supplemented with

Section 440. Original section/article: 204-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 441. Original section/article: 205. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Untimely or incomplete payment of non-tax payments and proceeds from the sale of fixed capital to the budget, except for proceeds from related grants
1. Untimely payment of non-tax payments and proceeds from the sale of fixed capital to the budget, except for proceeds from related grants, shall –
entail a warning.
2. Incomplete payment of non-tax payments and proceeds from the sale of fixed capital to the budget, except for proceeds from related grants, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than five monthly calculation indices, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than fifteen monthly calculation indices, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than thirty monthly calculation indices, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than fifty monthly calculation indices. 
3. Action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than five monthly calculation indices, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than fifteen monthly calculation indices, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than thirty monthly calculation indices, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred percent of the sum of unfulfilled obligation, but not less than fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 442. Original section/article: 205. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar d

Section 443. Original section/article: 206. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal to accept banknotes and coins of national currency
1. Refusal to accept banknotes and coins of national currency at face value, being in circulation on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, that are legal means of payment, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The action, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices.
3. Refusal by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Postal Operator to accept, exchange and exchange banknotes and coins of the national currency in circulation in the Republic of Kazakhstan and subject to acceptance for all types of payments, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. Banknotes and coins of national currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be legal means of payment in the following cases:
1) if they have obvious signs of forgery;
2) if the banknotes and coins are non-payment ones.
2. Private business entities (excluding banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Postal Operator), non-commercial organisations shall not be liable under this Article for refusal to accept dilapidated banknotes and defective (damaged) coins.
3. Banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Postal Operator shall not be subject to administrative liability stipulated by parts one and two of this Article for refusal to accept at face value banknotes and coins of the national currency in circulation in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are legal means of payment.
Footnote.

Section 444. Original section/article: 206. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 445. Original section/article: 207. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements 
1. Breach of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements to the tender documentation (auction documentation) or in the information, placed upon carrying out of state procurements by a method of requesting price proposals, by establishing any non-measured quantitatively and (or) non-administered requirements for potential suppliers or specifying characteristics, determining the ownership of the acquired goods, works, services to individual potential suppliers, with the exception of cases, provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-consideration or untimely consideration of comments to the draft of tender documentation (auction documentation), requests for clarification of the provisions of tender documentation (auction documentation), received in the framework of preliminary discussion of the draft of tender documentation (auction documentation), as well as non-placement or untimely placement of the protocol of preliminary discussion of the draft of tender documentation (auction documentation) upon availability of comments and requests for clarification to them, on the web portal of state procurements, as well as of the text of tender documentation (auction documentation), with the exception of cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, -
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Refusal to carry out state procurements in cases not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Direction of a request and other actions of the tender commission (auction commission) associated with the addition of the application for participation in the tender (auction) with missing documents, replacement of documents submitted in the application for participation in the tender (auction), bringing in compliance of inadequately filled documents, after the expiry of the term for bringing applications for participation in the tender (auction) in accordance with the qualification requirements and requirements of the tender documentation (auction documentation), provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Establishment of qualification requirements, not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements in tender documentation (auction documentation) to potential suppliers and (or) subcontractors (co-executors) of works or services, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements in part of non-application of criteria, affecting the competitive price proposal as well as their miscalculation –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Recognition of the potential supplier and (or) attracted by him subcontractors (co-executors) of the works or services, with inadequate qualification requirements and (or) requirements of the competitive documentation (auction documentation) on the grounds not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, – 
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Non-separation of goods, works, services into lots according to their homogeneous types and place of their delivery (performance, rendering), upon carrying out state procurements except for the cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurement,–
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
9. Preparation by an expert commission or an expert of deliberately false expert opinion, on the basis of which an illegal decision was made by a tender commission (auction commission), –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
10. The failure or untimely appeal of the customer, organizer of public procurement or a unified organizer of public procurement in the court with a claim for recognizing a potential supplier or supplier as an unscrupulous participant in public procurement if the potential supplier or supplier provided inaccurate information on qualification requirements and (or) documents affecting the competitive price offer, -
entails a fine of officials in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indicators.
10-1. Non-submitting or untimely submission of information by the customer to the authorized body in the field of public procurement on the evasion of the supplier from concluding a state procurement agreement by non-ensuring a contract execution security on the state procurement and (or) anti -dumping amount in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement -
entails a fine of officials in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indicators.
10-2. The failure or untimely appeal of the customer to the court with a claim for the recognition of suppliers as unscrupulous participants in public procurement in case of non -fulfillment or improper fulfillment by the supplier of obligations under the public procurement agreement concluded with him, with the exception of cases stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement, - -
entails a fine of officials in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indicators.
11. State procurements in one-source way by direct concluding of a contract on state procurements in cases not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurements, as well as acquisition of goods, works, services not provided by approved annual state procurement plan (preliminary annual state procurement plan), except for cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state procurement, – 
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
12. Non-indication in the protocols of the preliminary admission to participate in the tender (auction), on the results of state procurements in the manner of the tender (auction), of a detailed description of the reasons for rejecting the application of the potential supplier for participation in the tender (auction), including information and documents confirming its non-compliance with qualification requirements and requirements of the competitive documentation (auction documentation), –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
13. Non-placement or untimely placement of the annual public procurement plan (preliminary annual public procurement plan) or the amendments and (or) additions to the annual public procurement plan (preliminary annual public procurement plan) on the web portal of public procurement, with the exception of the information constituting state secrets in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state secrets and (or) containing information of limited distribution, as well as the approval (clarification) of the annual public procurement plan in a volume that does not comply with the budget (development plan) allocated money from the education infrastructure support Fund or the individual financing plan in the aggregate of economic classification (expenditures), which requires the conclusion of state procurement agreements, -
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
14. Late consideration of applications from potential suppliers for participation in the tender (auction), as well as untimely placement of the preliminary admission protocol and (or) the results of protocol –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
15. The actions (inaction), provided by parts one and six of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
16. The actions (inaction), provided by parts two, ten, 10-1, 10-2 and thirteen of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
17. The action, provided by part nine of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
18. The actions (inaction), provided by parts three and eleven of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. The officials in this Article shall be understood as follows:
1) in part one - the first head or executive secretary or other responsible person who approved the tender documentation, auction documentation or information posted during public procurement through the request for price offer, organizer of public procurement, a unified organizer of public procurement, customer or persons performing their duties, and (or) persons directly participating in the development of competitive documentation (auction documentation);
2) in parts two and ten - first managers of the organizer of public procurement, a unified organizer of public procurement, customer or persons performing their duties responsible for the implementation of the procedures for organizing and conducting public procurement;
3) in parts three, eight, 10-1, 10-2, eleven and thirteen - the first head or person who made the decision in accordance with the assigned powers, the customer or the person performing his duties;
4) in parts four and fourteen - the chairman of the tender commission (auction commission), as well as members and secretary of the tender commission (auction commission);
5) in part five - the first head or a person who has taken a decision in compliance with the assigned powers, the customer or a person performing his/her duties, the first head of the single organiser of public procurement or a person performing his/her duties;
6) in parts six, seven and twelve - the chairman of the tender commission (auction commission), as well as members of the tender commission (auction commission).
2. An official shall not be brought to administrative responsibility, provided by this Article in event of self-imposed elimination of violations, revealed on the results of desk control within ten working days from the date, following the day of delivery of a notification on elimination of violations, identified on the results of a desk control to the control object.
Footnote.

Section 446. Original section/article: 207. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 202-VI dated 26.12.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); with amendments made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2024 № 108-VIII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2025); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 447. Original section/article: 207-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for procurement of goods, works, services of national management holdings, national holdings, national companies and organizations, fifty or more percent of the voting shares (stakes in the authorized capital) of which directly or indirectly belong to the national management holding, national holding, national company
1. Establishment in the tender documentation (auction documentation) for potential suppliers of qualification requirements not provided by the procurement procedure, or an indication in the tender documentation (auction documentation) or in the information posted when making procurement by requesting price proposals for characteristics that determine the belonging of the purchased goods works, services to individual potential suppliers, except for the cases provided by the procurement procedure, shall –
entail a fine for officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Refusal to carry out procurement in cases not provided by the procurement procedure, –
entail a fine for officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Recognition of a potential supplier and (or) the subcontractors (co-executors) of work or services attracted by him as inappropriate to qualification requirements and (or) the requirements of tender documents (auction documents) on grounds not provided by the procurement procedure, shall –
entail a fine for officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-division in the procurement of goods, works, services into lots according to their homogeneous types and the place of their delivery (execution, provision), except for the cases provided by the procurement procedure, shall–
entail a fine for officials in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
5. Preparation by the procurement expert commission or procurement expert of a knowingly false expert opinion, on the basis of which an illegal decision was made by the tender commission (auction commission), shall –
entail a fine for officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Carrying out purchases from a single source by directly concluding a procurement contract in cases not provided by the procurement procedure, shall –
entail a fine for officials in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note.
1. The procedure for procurement in this article should be understood as the rules for the procurement provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On procurement of individual subjects of the quasi-public sector”, or the procedure for the procurement provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On the National Welfare Fund”.
2. Under officials in this Article should be understood:
1) in part one - the chief executive officers of the procurement organizer, the customer or persons performing their duties, and (or) persons directly involved in the development of tender documents (auction documents);
2) in parts two, four and six - the chief executive officers of the procurement organizer, the customer or the persons performing their duties, responsible for the procedures for organizing and conducting procurement; 
3) in part three - the chairman of the tender commission (auction commission) and his deputy, as well as members of the tender commission (auction commission), created by the organizer of the procurement of goods, works and services by national managing holdings, national holdings, national companies and organizations, fifty or more percent of voting shares (stakes in the authorized capital) of which directly or indirectly belong to the national management holding, national holding, national company.
3. An official shall not be subject to the administrative responsibility provided by this Article in case of self-elimination of violations revealed by the results of the control carried out by the National Welfare Fund, the centralized procurement control service, within ten working days from the day following the day of delivery to the object of control, notifications on the elimination of violations revealed by the results of control carried out by the National Wealth Fund, the centralized procurement control service.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented by

Section 448. Original section/article: 207-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2018 № 202-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); with the amendments made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2024 № 108-VIII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2025).

Section 449. Original section/article: 208. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on credit bureaus and formation of credit histories
1. Performance by a credit bureau, including those with state participation, of activities that are not related to the main activities of forming credit histories and submitting credit reports and additional activities, as well as performance by a credit bureau with state participation of activities not related to the formation and maintenance of a database on insurance and rendering services for calculating credit scoring, –
entail a fine for legal entities in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Provision of information about the subject of credit history by the supplier to credit bureaus (except for a credit bureau with state participation) for formation of a credit history without the consent of the subject of credit history, except for the cases of providing negative information about the subject of credit history, as well as incorrect execution of such consent, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in amount of twenty, for officials - in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Submission of a request by the recipient of the credit report for submission of a credit report without the consent of the subject of credit history, except for cases of receiving negative information about the subject of credit history, as well as incorrect execution of such consent, shall – 
entail a fine for individuals in amount of twenty, for officials - in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices. 
3. Failure to submit, as well as untimely submission of information to the credit bureau by the supplier of information received from the subject of credit history, the submission of which is required in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on credit bureaus and formation of credit histories, or submission of inaccurate information, shall – 
entail a fine for individuals in amount of twenty, for officials - in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. Information shall be understood as information regarding subjects of credit histories in electronic and paper form, transmitted by participants in the system for formation of credit histories and their use, if necessary, certified by an electronic digital signature.
Footnote.

Section 450. Original section/article: 208. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 451. Original section/article: 209. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on concessions
Introduction of amendments into conditions of a tender at the choice of a concessionary, as well as into initial parameters and characteristics of a concessionary application in the course of holding negotiations with a participant of the tender, the concessionary application of whom is recognized as the best on adjusting a concessionary project and conditions of concession agreement, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. The civil servants in this Article shall be regarded as the chief executive officers of an organizer of the tender on concession or the persons fulfilling their obligations being liable for carrying out of the procedures for organizing and holding the tender.

Section 452. Original section/article: 210. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Making payments and (or) money transfers on currency operations without presentation of currency agreement in the manner provided by the currency legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Making payments and (or) money transfers by authorized bank on currency operations without presentation of currency agreement or currency agreement with an assigned account number when the presentation of such currency agreement shall be mandatory in accordance with the regulatory legal acts of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – 
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 453. Original section/article: 210. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
shall be provided in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019).

Section 454. Original section/article: 210-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with the requirement of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the authorized bank to eliminate the identified violations of the currency legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Failure to comply with the requirement of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the authorized bank to eliminate the identified violations of the currency legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall -
entail a warning. 
2. Act provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
entail a fine in amount of four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. Responsibility for commission of an infraction provided by part two of this Article shall arise in case that an authorized bank commits a similar violation for which the authorized bank was brought to administrative responsibility under part one of this Article.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 455. Original section/article: 210-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 456. Original section/article: 211. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on microfinance activity
Footnote. Heading of

Section 457. Original section/article: 211. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).
1. Carrying out of the types of activity by microfinance organizations not provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On microfinance activity”, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Distribution or placement by a microfinance organization in mass media of advertisements that do not correspond to reality on the day of their publication, as well as advertisements related to the offer of microcredit on the terms that do not comply with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in microfinance activities, if this action does not have signs of a criminal offense, –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Submission of unreliable financial or other reports by microfinance organizations, shall –
entail a warning.
3-1. Act provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Repeated (two and more times within twelve sequential calendar months) violation of the same prudential standards by microfinance organizations and (or) other mandatory norms and limits established by the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, shall -
entail a fine in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Failure to indicate, inaccurately indicate the amount of the annual effective interest rate calculated in compliance with the procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by organisations engaged in microfinance activities, by persons to whom the right (claim) under a microloan agreement has been assigned, in microloan agreements concluded with clients, as well as in the dissemination and/or placement of advertisements containing information on the amount of interest on microloans, –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5-1. Exceeding by organisations engaged in microfinance activities, persons to whom the right (claim) under the agreement on granting a microloan has been assigned, of the maximum amount of the annual effective interest rate determined by a joint normative legal act of the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
6. Loss of payment documents of clients by microfinance organizations, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. Loss of originals of title documents for property that is a guarantee under a microcredit agreement, by a microfinance organization, a person to whom the right (claim) under the microcredit agreement was assigned, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Failure to notify or untimely notifying the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations of state registration (re-registration) with the Government for Citizens State Corporation as a microfinance organisation, credit partnership, pawnshop –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for small business entities, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and forty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Note. 
1. Responsibility for committing an infraction provided by part 3-1 of this Article occurs in cases of submission of the same form of periodic reporting, the submission of which shall be required by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. For the purposes of parts five, 5-1 and seven of this Article, the persons to whom the right (claim) under the agreement on granting a microloan is assigned shall mean a second-tier bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a collection agency, an organisation engaged in microfinance activities, a special financial company established under the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on project financing and securitisation, in the case of a securitisation transaction, a legal entity is a pledgee of the rights of claim under a microloan agreement when a microfinance institution issues secured bonds or obtains loans.
Footnote.

Section 458. Original section/article: 211. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 10.06.2024 № 91-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 459. Original section/article: 211-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collection activities
1. Performance of the following dishonest actions by a collection agency, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminal offense:
1) use of other methods of interaction with the debtor and (or) his/her representative, and (or) a third person, not provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On collection activity";
2) acceptance of money (in cash or non-cash form) from the debtor, as well as other property to repay the debt when providing services to the creditor on collection activities under the relevant contract;
3) demand for the repayment of debts by other property, except money, when rendering services to the creditor on collection activities within the framework of the relevant contract;
4) disclosure of commercial or other secrets, protected by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan received from the creditor and (or) his/her representative and (or) third parties, with the exception of cases provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for small business entities, four hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and six hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
1-1. Committing the following unfair actions by an employee of a collection agency interacting with a debtor and (or) his/her representative and (or) a third party, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offence: 
1) misleading the debtor and (or) his/her representative and (or) a third party as to the amount, nature and grounds of the debt under a bank loan agreement or microloan granting agreement;
2) Reporting to the debtor and (or) his representative and (or) a third party unreliable surname and (or) name and (or) patronymic (if it is specified in the identity document), as well as information on employment and (or) position that does not correspond to reality, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals.
2. Violation of rules for implementation of collection activities by a collection agency, with the exception of dishonest actions, provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On collection activity", shall -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred for small enterprises, two hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and three hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
3. Untimely provision of the information by a collection agency to the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations required in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collection activities, shall -
entail a warning.
3-1. Action provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3-2. Failure to provide the information to the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations required in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collection activities by a collection agency, shall – 
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3-3. Provision of information to the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations that does not contain information, the provision of which shall be required in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collection activity, or provision of inaccurate information or knowingly inaccurate information by a collection agency, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Submission of inaccurate, as well as incomplete reporting by collection agencies, shall –
entail a warning.
5. Action provided by part four of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. Responsibility for commission of an infraction provided by part five of this Article occurs in cases of submission of an unreliable, as well as incomplete, one and the same reporting form, the submission of which shall be required by a regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented with

Section 460. Original section/article: 211-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 461. Original section/article: 211-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements and restrictions, imposed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the relationship between the creditor and the borrower, by a person to whom the right (claim) under the bank loan agreement or microcredit agreement was assigned 
1. Unilaterally amending the terms and conditions of a bank loan agreement or microloan agreement, excluding cases of their improvement for the borrower, –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Assignment by a person to whom a right (claim) under a bank loan agreement or a microcredit agreement was assigned, concluded with an individual or other persons, not provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On banks and banking activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On microfinance organizations", shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Charges of commissions and payments when transferring the rights (claims) of the creditor under the contract of assignment of the right of claim from the debtor, not provided by the bank loan agreement or by the microcredit agreement, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. For the purposes of this article, the person to whom the right (claim) under a bank loan agreement is assigned shall mean a collection agency, a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations, a subsidiary of a bank acquiring doubtful and bad assets of the parent bank, an organisation specialising in improving the quality of credit portfolios of second-tier banks, a special financial company established under the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on project financing and securitisation, in the case of a securitisation transaction.
2. For the purposes of this Article, the person to whom the right (claim) under the microcredit agreement was assigned shall be understood as a collection agency, a microfinance organization, a special financial company, established in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on project financing and securitization, under a securitization transaction.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented with

Section 462. Original section/article: 211-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06. 05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 463. Original section/article: 212. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
: Breach of deadlines for submission of financial statements, accounting data reports or other reports by financial organisations and other persons
Footnote. The title of

Section 464. Original section/article: 212. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Breach by financial organisations, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisation guaranteeing insurance payments, collection agencies, credit bureaus and payment organisations of the term for submission of financial or other reporting, reporting on accounting data stipulated by regulatory legal acts of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
entail a warning..
2. Act provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship, non-profit organizations – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020). 
Note. Responsibility for commission of an infraction provided by part two of this Article occurs in cases of violation of term for presentation of the same form of periodic reporting, the presentation of which shall be required by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, provided by the regulatory legal acts of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 465. Original section/article: 212. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 466. Original section/article: 213. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
4. Repeated (two and more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) violation by branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations carrying out certain types of banking operations, of one and the same prudential normatives and (or) other mandatory norms and limits established by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Repeated (two or more times within three consecutive calendar months) violation by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the minimum reserve requirements, established by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Carrying out by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, bank holdings, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, operations and transactions prohibited in accordance with the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan or in violation of the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as those beyond their legal capacity, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one tenth of one percent of the transaction amount, but not less than two hundred and not more than one thousand monthly calculation indices.
7. The action provided by a part six of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one percent of the transaction amount, but not less than four hundred and not more than two thousand monthly calculation indices.
8. Preparation by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, of reporting, which led to the distortion of information on the implementation of prudential standards and (or) other mandatory norms and limits determined by the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. The action provided by a part eight of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Failure to perform by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, by persons to whom the right (claim) under a bank loan agreement has been assigned, the obligation to indicate the interest rate in a reliable, annual, effective, comparable calculation in agreements concluded with customers, as well as when disseminating information on interest rates on loans and deposits (except for interbank ones), including its publication, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
11. Announcement or publication by a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the media that does not correspond to reality on the publication day, –
entail a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
12. Exceeding by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations carrying out certain types of banking operations, persons to whom the right (claim) under a bank loan agreement has been assigned, the maximum amount of the annual effective interest rate determined by a joint regulatory legal act of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
13. Violation by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, persons to whom the right (claim) under a bank loan agreement has been assigned, of the procedure for calculation, a condition for the operation of a floating interest rate under bank loan agreements, including under mortgage loan agreements concluded with individuals, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
14. Loss of original documents of title to property that is collateral under a bank loan agreement by a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organization carrying out certain types of banking operations, by a person to whom the right (claim) was assigned under a bank loan agreement, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
15. Breach by legal entities whose exclusive activity is the collection of banknotes, coins and valuables of the requirements for the formation of collection teams, preparation of turnout cards and trip tickets for road collection transport, use of seals, provision of collectors with equipment, personal protective equipment, including bulletproof vests, helmets (helmets), as well as service weapons–
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and eighty monthly calculation indices for large-sized enterprises.
Note
1. For the purposes of part eight of this article, the administrative administrative liability arises when, as a result of correcting misrepresented information, a violation by a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organization carrying out certain types of banking operations, of prudential standards and (or) other mandatory norms and limits is revealed, established by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations.
2. For the purposes of parts ten, twelve, thirteen and fourteen of this Article, a person to whom the right (claim) under a bank loan agreement was assigned shall be understood as a collection agency, a bank, an organization, carrying out certain types of banking operations, a subsidiary of the bank acquiring doubtful and uncollectible assets of the parent bank, an organization, specializing in improving the quality of loan portfolios of second-tier banks, a special financial company created in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on project financing and securitization, under a securitization transaction.
Footnote.

Section 467. Original section/article: 213. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 468. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 10.06.2024 № 91-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 469. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on combating the legalisation (laundering) of proceeds of crime, the financing of terrorism and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
1. Breaches by entities subject to financial monitoring of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on combating the legalisation (laundering) of proceeds of crime, financing of terrorism and financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, with regard to the recording and storage of information and documents, and the protection of documents –
shall result in a fine of thirty for natural persons; seventy for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; two hundred and ten for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – two hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to submit information in a timely manner regarding transactions involving money and/or other assets subject to financial monitoring, as required by paragraphs 3 and 5 of

Section 470. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, –
shall result in a warning or a fine of sixty-five for natural persons; one hundred and eighty for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; two hundred and ninety for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of five hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to disclose information, or the provision by entities subject to financial monitoring of knowingly false information relating to transactions involving money and/or other assets subject to financial monitoring, as specified in paragraphs 3 and 5 of

Section 471. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, –
shall result in a fine of seventy-five for natural persons; two hundred and ten for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and thirty for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – a fine of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to submit information, data and documents in a timely manner in response to a request from the competent financial monitoring authority –
shall result in a warning or a fine of forty for natural persons, and of one hundred and ten for public officials, notaries and solicitors, small businesses and non-profit organisations, for medium-sized business entities – in the amount of two hundred and eighty; for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of four hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
5. Failure to furnish information, or provision of inaccurate information, data or documents by entities subject to financial monitoring in response to a request from the competent financial monitoring authority –
shall result in a fine of forty-five for natural persons; one hundred and twenty for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Failure to provide the information and documents specified in

Section 472. Original section/article: 12-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(5) of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, upon request by the authorised financial monitoring body –
shall result in a warning or a fine of forty monthly calculation indices for natural persons, one hundred for small business entities and non-profit organisations, two hundred and fifty for medium-sized business entities, and four hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
7. Failure to furnish information, or the provision of false information or documents as required under

Section 473. Original section/article: 12-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(5) of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Laundering of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, upon request by the authorised financial monitoring body –
shall entail a fine of forty-five monthly calculation indices for natural persons, one hundred and ten for small business entities and non-profit organisations, two hundred and eighty for medium-sized business entities, and four hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
8. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to take measures to properly verify customers (their representatives) and beneficial owners –
shall result in a fine of forty for natural persons; one hundred and ten for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; two hundred and eighty for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – four hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
9. Breaches by entities subject to financial monitoring of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on combating the legalisation (laundering) of proceeds of crime, financing of terrorism and financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, in relation to the adoption of measures to freeze transactions involving funds and/or other property and/or the provision of information on measures to freeze transactions involving funds and/or other property –
shall incur a fine of seventy-five for natural persons; for public officials, notaries and solicitors, small business entities and non-profit organisations – one hundred and ninety-five; and for medium-sized business entities – three hundred and thirty, for large enterprises, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to fulfil their obligations to refuse to enter into business relationships with a customer, to conduct transactions involving money and/or other property, and/or to disclose information regarding such refusals – shall result in a fine of forty for natural persons; one hundred and ten for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; two hundred and eighty for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – four hundred and twenty times the monthly calculation index.
11. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to implement the training programme on combating the laundering of proceeds of crime, financing of terrorism and financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as approved by the internal control rules, –
shall result in a fine of thirty for natural persons; seventy for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; two hundred and ten for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – two hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices.
12. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to timely report information on transactions involving money and/or other assets subject to financial monitoring, specified in paragraph 1 of

Section 474. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, –
shall entail a warning or a fine of forty for natural persons; for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations – of one hundred; for medium-sized business entities – of two hundred and sixty; for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – four hundred times the monthly calculation index.
13. Failure to provide information, or the provision of false information, by entities subject to financial monitoring regarding transactions involving money and/or other assets subject to financial monitoring, specified in paragraph 1 of

Section 475. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating the Legalisation (Laundering) of Proceeds of Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”, –
shall entail a fine of forty-five for natural persons; one hundred and twenty for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – a fine of four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
14. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to suspend clients’ transactions following a decision by the competent financial monitoring authority –
shall incur a fine of seventy-five for natural persons; two hundred and ten for public officials, notaries and solicitors, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and thirty for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – a fine of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
15. Inconsistency of internal control procedures with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on combating the laundering of proceeds of crime, the financing of terrorism and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction –
shall entail a warning or a fine of one hundred and ten for natural persons; one hundred and eighty for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and twenty for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.
16. Failure by entities subject to financial monitoring to fulfil their obligations to develop and adopt internal control rules –
shall entail a fine of one hundred and twenty for natural persons; one hundred and ninety-five for officials, notaries and solicitors, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and forty-five for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – seven hundred and fifty times the monthly calculation index.
17. Notification by entities subject to financial monitoring to their customers and other persons concerning provision or receipt from the competent financial monitoring authority of information, data and documents concerning measures to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, taken in respect of such clients and other persons, –
shall entail a fine of seventy-five for natural persons; two hundred and ten for public officials, notaries and solicitors, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and thirty for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of six hundred and forty monthly calculation indices.
18. Action (or inaction) as referred to in parts one, three, five, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, thirteen, fourteen, sixteen and seventeen of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall incur a fine of one hundred and fifty for natural persons; two hundred and twenty-five for officials, notaries and solicitors, small business entities and non-profit organisations; three hundred and seventy-five for medium-sized business entities; and for large business entities, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of nine hundred monthly calculation indices.
19. Action (or inaction) as specified in parts one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and seventeen of this Article, committed three or more times within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall result in a fine of two hundred for natural persons; four hundred and fifty for officials, notaries and lawyers, small business entities and non-profit organisations; nine hundred for medium-sized business entities; and, branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of one thousand eight hundred monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of the licence or qualification certificate for a period of up to six months, or their revocation, or the suspension of operations for a period of up to three months, or a ban on operations or specific types of operations for a period of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 476. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of December 30, 2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 477. Original section/article: 214-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Commission of an operation with money and (or) other property that entailed legalization (laundering) of proceeds from crime 
The commission by a legal entity of an operation with money and (or) other property obtained knowingly for an individual of this legal entity by criminal means, which entailed giving a lawful form to the possession, use or disposal of the specified money and (or) other property, –
entails a fine on small businesses, non–profit organizations in the amount of seven hundred and fifty, on medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one thousand, on large businesses - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. An individual in this article should be understood as a person who permanently, temporarily or by special authority performs organizational and administrative or administrative-economic functions in a legal entity specified in paragraph one of this article, or an employee of such a legal entity who has the right to perform transactions with money and (or) other property in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the charter of a legal entity, or the beneficial owner of such a legal entity, defined by subparagraph 3) of

Section 478. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On countering the legalization (laundering) of proceeds from crime and financing of terrorism".
2. A legal entity that has voluntarily declared an operation with money and (or) other property that entailed the legalization (laundering) of proceeds from crime shall be released from administrative responsibility, unless its actions contain the composition of another offense.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 479. Original section/article: 214-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2022 № 132-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 480. Original section/article: 215. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure for formation of risk management and internal control systems
Footnote.

Section 481. Original section/article: 215. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 482. Original section/article: 215-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the sphere of ensuring information security
1. Infringement of the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of information security, expressed as follows:
1) failure of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to ensure backup storage of information system data, including critical information assets, their files and settings that ensure restoration of a working copy of the information system;
2) failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, when transferring critical information assets of a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations to third parties, to take measures to exclude the possibility of third parties' access to information, transfer of which to third parties is prohibited under the civil and banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on personal data and their protection; 
3) failure of the information security unit and (or) internal audit unit of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to inspect the activities of structural units of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations with regard to assessment of information security condition;
4) absence of encryption of telecommunication connections (excluding connections with the city telephone network) beyond the protection perimeter of the information and communication infrastructure at banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations;
5) non-compliance by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations with access rules established on firewalls, requirements to block connections not used for the functioning of information assets of a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations, and (or) absence of intrusion detection and prevention means at the perimeter of information and communication infrastructure protection;
6) granting by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, users access to critical information assets of a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations located within the perimeter of information and communication infrastructure protection, via an unencrypted channel from outside the information and communications infrastructure protection perimeter and (or) providing users with access to information systems, including critical information assets, from outside the information and communications infrastructure protection perimeter without the use of two-factor authentication methods;
7) failure of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to ensure security of users' access to Internet resources and (or) security of use of external electronic mail;
8) absence in banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, of a list of administrators of information systems that include critical information assets, and (or) double control when performing functions of administration of information systems that include critical information assets, and (or) special complexes of control over use of privileged accounts;
9) absence of audit trail function in critical information assets of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, reflecting events of connection establishment, identification, authentication and authorisation in a critical information asset, events of modification of security settings, events of modification of user groups and their authorities, events of modification of user accounts and their authorities, events reflecting installation of changes in the information asset, events of modification of user groups and their authorities, events of modification of user accounts and their authorities, events reflecting installation of changes in the information asset, events reflecting the installation of changes in the information system, audit parameter change events, system parameter change events;
10) failure of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to conduct semi-annual scanning of critical information assets for vulnerabilities and (or) absence of scanning results in the form of a report on the state of information security with recommendations on corrective measures to eliminate identified vulnerabilities;
11) failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to ensure proper functioning of the information security incident response service, expressed in the absence of a list of information security events subject to monitoring, sources of such events, frequency, procedure and methods of monitoring information security events and (or) absence of documents, information and facts confirming the implementation of the incident response procedure;
12) failure of the information security service of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to monitor and analyse information security events and/or classify and prioritise information security incidents;
13) failure of the information security service of banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to ensure consolidation, systematisation, storage, integrity and safety of information regarding information security incidents in the information security incident log, reflecting information on information security incident, measures taken and proposed corrective measures, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and non-profit organisations, and two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large enterprises and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Breach of the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of information security, expressed in the absence in banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan of implemented processes for formation and subsequent updating of the list of critical information assets and (or) absence of implemented processes for assessment of information security risks for critical information assets, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large enterprises and branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 483. Original section/article: 215-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in conformity with Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 484. Original section/article: 216. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-achievement of results of budget investments by subjects of quasi-public sector
1. Non-achievement of results of budget investments by branch, related and other legal entities that are affiliated in accordance with the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by participation of the state in their charter capital provided in a financial feasibility study, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants – chief executive officers in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-achievement of results of budget investments by the state enterprises, limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, the participant or shareholder of which is the state, by participation of the state in their charter capital provided in a financial feasibility study, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants – chief executive officers in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 485. Original section/article: 217. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement by currency control agents of the procedure for reporting on currency operations
Footnote. The title of

Section 486. Original section/article: 217. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Violation of term for presentation of report on notification of made currency operations by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
3. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report on notification of made currency operations by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
5. Violation of term for presentation of report on currency agreements of export and import by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a notification. 
6. The action provided by part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
7. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report on currency agreements of export and import by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification. 
8. The action provided by part seven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
9. Violation of term for presentation of report on currency agreements, on the basis of and (or) in pursuance of which shall be made capital operations by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification. 
10. The action provided by part nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
11. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report on currency agreements, on the basis of and (or) in pursuance of which shall be made capital operations by agent of currency control provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification. 
12. The action provided by part eleven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 487. Original section/article: 217. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is provided in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); 217 as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 488. Original section/article: 218. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the procedure for submission of reports for the purposes of monitoring the sources of supply and demand on the domestic currency market of the Republic of Kazakhstan or reports on the exchange operations activity with foreign currency in cash 
1. Violation of terms for presentation reports for monitoring of demand and supply sources at internal currency market of the Republic of Kazakhstan by an authorized bank or a professional securities market participant for currency operations on behalf of clients, provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
3. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report for monitoring of demand and supply sources at internal currency market of the Republic of Kazakhstan by an authorized bank or a professional securities market participant for currency operations on behalf of clients, provided by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
5. Violation by an authorised bank or an authorised organisation of the term specified in the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for reporting on the foreign currency cash exchange activity –
shall entail a notification.
6. The action provided by part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
7. Filing by an authorised bank or an authorised organisation of an incomplete and (or) unreliable report on the foreign currency cash exchange operations activity stipulated by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification.
8. The action provided by part seven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 489. Original section/article: 218. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is provided in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 490. Original section/article: 219. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excess of natural norms on administrative costs
Excess of natural norms on administrative costs by the state enterprises, joint stock companies and limited liability partnerships controlled by the state, established by the regulatory legal acts, shall –
entail a fine on chief executive officers in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 491. Original section/article: 220. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on payments and payment systems, requirements, related to banking service of customers
Footnote. Title of

Section 492. Original section/article: 220. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26. 07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Violations by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, of terms for execution of instructions on payment and (or) money transfer or refusal to execute instructions on payment and (or) money transfer, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems" shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of five percent of the amount of instructions for payment and (or) money transfer, but not more than one hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship and two hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Execution by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, instruction on payment or money transfer, committed in a favor of a beneficiary being different from that stated in the instruction, or on a sum different from that stated in the instruction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of five percent of the amount of instructions for payment and (or) money transfer, but not more than one hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship and two hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Loss of payment documents of clients by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices per each payment document.
4. Unreasonable refusal by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, in execution of the instruction on payment and (or) transfer of money in the absence of grounds for refusal in execution of the instruction, determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems", shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of five percent of the amount of instructions for payment and (or) money transfer, but not more than one hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship and two hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4-1. Execution by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, of instructions on payment and (or) transfer of money in cases when the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems" provides refusal in execution the instruction on payment and (or) transfer of money, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of five percent of the amount of instructions for payment and (or) money transfer, but not more than one hundredmonthly calculation indices on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship and two hundred monthly calculation indices on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
5. Violation of order of priority of withdrawing money from bank account of a client by the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, established by the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26. 07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication). 
7. Non-compliance of requirements, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems", when providing payment services through payment agents and (or) payment subagentsby the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
8.The action (inaction), provided by part seven of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. The requirements of this Article shall not apply on actions (inaction), responsibility for which is provided by part eight of

Section 493. Original section/article: 285. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. For the purposes of part one of this Article, banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizations, carrying out certain types of banking operations, deprived of a permit issued by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, and (or) in the correspondent account opened with the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan having outstanding requirements or restrictions on management of money that impede for conduct of expenditure operations of which, on the date on which the instruction for payment and (or) money transfer was subject to execution in accordance with the terms established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems", shall not be subject to administrative responsibility.
Footnote.

Section 494. Original section/article: 220. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.07.2017); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 495. Original section/article: 221. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Issuance of accommodation, prime and financial bills in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Issuance of accommodation, prime and financial bills in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 496. Original section/article: 222. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of creation, use and disbursement of electronic money
1. Issuance of electronic money by an emitter to the sum that does not conform to the sum of imposed obligations, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The action, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Issuance of electronic money by an emitter to the sum exceeding fifty monthly calculation indices, without identifying the owner of electronic money, as well as admission of using electronic money by the emitter in a system of electronic money upon commission of operations to the sum that exceeds established limitations on a maximum sum of one operation, the amount of storage of electronic money in the electronic wallet and the total amount of used electronic money through the electronic wallet, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On payments and payment systems", shall –
entail a notification.
4. The actions, provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-disbursement, untimely and incomplete disbursement of electronic money by an emitter received by an individual entrepreneur or legal entity from individuals upon payment on civil transactions, shall –
entail a notification.
6. The actions, provided by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 497. Original section/article: 222. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 498. Original section/article: 223. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations related to the unlawful acquisition, directly or indirectly, of ten or more percent of the shares of a financial organization without obtaining the written consent of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations
Footnote. Heading of

Section 499. Original section/article: 223. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).
Acquisition by a person, directly or indirectly, of shares of a financial organization in amount of ten or more percent of the outstanding (minus preferred and repurchased) shares of a financial organization, as well as control or the ability to influence decisions made by a financial organization in amount of ten or more percent of the outstanding (less preferred and repurchased) shares of a financial organization without the written consent of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on legal entities - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 500. Original section/article: 223. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 501. Original section/article: 224. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations linked with unlawful acquisition of participatory shares in charter capitals of legal entities or shares by banks, insurance (reinsurance) organizations, banking holdings, insurance holdings
1. Acquisition of participatory shares in charter capitals of legal entities or shares by banks, insurance (reinsurance) organizations in violation of requirements of the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of acts provided by a part three of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Acquisition of participatory shares in charter capitals of legal entities or shares by banking holdings, insurance holdings in violation of requirements of the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of acts provided by a part three of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Creation or acquisition of a subsidiary by a bank, insurance (reinsurance) company, bank holding company, insurance holding company without the prior permission of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 502. Original section/article: 224. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 503. Original section/article: 225. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inappropriate use of pension assets
1. Breach by the investment portfolio manager and members of the Investment Committee of the terms and procedure for investing pension assets in terms of requirements to the place, method and method of concluding transactions, principles of settlements on transactions, limits of investment in financial instruments, transactions with derivative financial instruments, terms of placement of pension assets into deposits (deposits), as well as prohibitions on certain types of transactions –
entail a fine on an individual in amount of two hundred, on legal entities in amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-carrying out of control of appropriate placement of pension assets of voluntary pension saving fund by a bank-custodian, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purpose of a part two of this Article, the bank-custodian shall be regarded as the second tier bank.
Footnote.

Section 504. Original section/article: 225. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 505. Original section/article: 226. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of requirements related to liquidation of banks, insurance (reinsurance) organisations, 
forced termination of branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Title of

Section 506. Original section/article: 226. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Avoidance of a chairman or head of the division of liquidation commission from conduct of inspection of activity of the liquidation commission by the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations or impeding its conduct, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices. 
2. Repeated (two and more times within six sequential calendar months) representation of inaccurate reporting and information established by the bank legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on insurance and insurance activity, untimely representation, non-representation of reporting and additional information established by the bank legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on insurance and insurance activity by a chairman, head of the division of liquidation commission to the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 507. Original section/article: 226. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 508. Original section/article: 227. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment, untimely fulfillment of obligations, accepted and (or) imposed by applying supervisory response measures, restricted enforcement measures 
1. Non-fulfilment, untimely fulfilment by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, major participants of banks, bank holding companies, organisations that are part of a banking conglomerate, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, excluding cases envisaged by paragraph 1-1 of this Article, of obligations assumed by them and (or) imposed on them through the application of a supervisory response measure in the form of a written order and (or) a written agreement, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred and fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Non-fulfilment, untimely fulfilment by legal entities whose exclusive activity is the collection of banknotes, coins and valuables of the obligations assumed by them and (or) imposed on them by applying a supervisory response measure in the form of a written instruction and (or) a written agreement, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large-sized enterprises.
2. Non-fulfillment, untimely fulfillment of obligations by insurance (reinsurance) organizations, branches of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, insurance brokers, insurance holdings, large participants of insurance (reinsurance) organization, legal entities included into the composition of insurance group, organization guaranteeing for insurance payments, actuary having a license for actuarial activities in the insurance market, professional participants of the securities market, large participants of a manager of investment portfolio, accepted by them and (or) imposed on them by applying supervisory response measures in the form of a written prescription and (or) a written agreement, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or a non-profit organization – in the amount of one hundred and twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred and ninety, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship, branches of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-performance, untimely performance by securities market entities, the unified accumulative pension fund, organisations engaged in microfinance activities, operators of payment systems, operational centres of payment systems and providers of payment services of the obligations assumed by them and (or) imposed on them through the application of limited enforcement measures, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, one hundred and twenty for small businesses or non-profit organisations, one hundred and ninety for medium-sized businesses and two hundred and fifty for large businesses.
4. Failure by the chairman of the liquidation commission of a bank, insurance (reinsurance) organisation, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan to comply with a written order to eliminate infringements of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the term established by the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial institutions –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-fulfillment, untimely fulfillment of obligations by the collection agency, accepted by it and (or) assigned to it by applying restricted enforcement measures, shall –
shall entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purposes of part three of this Article, payment system operators, payment system operating centers and payment service providers shall be understood to mean payment system operators, payment system operating centers and payment service providers, that are not the banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations.
Footnote.

Section 509. Original section/article: 227. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 510. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 511. Original section/article: 228. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on insurance and insurance activity
1. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) infringement by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a parent organisation of an insurance group of the same prudential norms and (or) other mandatory norms and limits established by the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities, branches of an insurance organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Failure of an insurance company, a branch of an insurance company - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an insurance broker, a branch of an insurance broker - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan to timely notify policyholders of a change in the location of its permanent body, separate unit or change of name –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Breach by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an insurance broker, a branch of an insurance broker - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the terms of accounting and storage of documents related to their activities, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Drawing up by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of a report that led to misrepresentation of information on compliance with prudential norms and (or) other mandatory norms and limits established by the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations, –
shall entail a penalty for legal entities, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-payment, untimely payment or payment of mandatory or extraordinary contributions, as well as initial one-off and additional contributions in incomplete amount by insurance organisations, branch of an insurance organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Insurance Benefits Guarantee Fund –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Failure to publish, delayed publication by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an insurance broker, a branch of an insurance broker - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of financial statements, statements on accounting data and other information in mass media – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Failure of an insurance company, a branch of an insurance company - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan - to conclude agreements on provision of information and receipt of insurance reports with an organisation for formation and maintenance of a database on insurance and failure to register with this organisation –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purposes of part four of this Article administrative liability shall be incurred in case when as a result of correction of distorted information it is revealed that an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan has violated prudential norms and (or) other mandatory norms and limits established by the competent authority on regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations.
Footnote.

Section 512. Original section/article: 228. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 513. Original section/article: 229. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements by an insurance organization, a branch of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan, related to the insurance payment
Footnote. The heading of

Section 514. Original section/article: 229. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020).
1. Failure to make, as well as untimely making of insurance payment or incorrect making of insurance payment –
entail a fine on legal entities, a branch of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Loss of documents presented by a client for making of insurance payment, –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 515. Original section/article: 229. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020).

Section 516. Original section/article: 230. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory insurance
1. Evasion of an insurance organisation, branch of an insurance organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan from concluding an agreement of compulsory insurance envisaged by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to conclude compulsory insurance contract by a person being liable to conclude the compulsory insurance contract in accordance with the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory insurance, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on officials, private notaries, private bailiffs, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of one hundred and sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Breach by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the requirements of legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, expressed in non-fulfilment or improper fulfilment of the requirements to submit information to the insurance database, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Conclusion by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of an agreement of compulsory insurance on terms inconsistent with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, expressed in the establishment of insurance amounts other than those specified by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory types of insurance, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred per cent of the amount of insurance premiums under insurance agreements, but not exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. Conclusion by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of an obligatory insurance agreement on conditions not complying with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, expressed in setting the amount of insurance premiums other than established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on obligatory types of insurance, as well as incorrect (unreasonable) application of coefficients in calculating the insurance premiums –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred per cent of the amount of insurance premiums under insurance agreements, but not exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices.
6. Conclusion by an insurance (reinsurance) organisation, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) organisation - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of an obligatory insurance agreement on conditions not corresponding to the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, expressed in insurance of facilities under obligatory types of insurance not subject to insurance , –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred per cent of the amount of insurance premiums under insurance agreements, but not exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices.
7. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 517. Original section/article: 230. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.04.2015 № 311-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 518. Original section/article: 231. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the terms established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for coordination of leading employees of financial organizations, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branhes of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, banking and insurance holdings, Guarantee fund of insurance payments
Footnote. The heading of

Section 519. Original section/article: 231. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020).
1. Violation of the terms for coordination of a leading employee of a financial organization, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a branch of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branch of non-resident insurance broker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, banking and insurance holdings, the Guarantee fund of insurance payments by a financial organization, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a branch of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branch of non-resident insurance broker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, banking and insurance holdings, the Guarantee fund of insurance payments shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of ninety monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of a non-resident insurance (reinsurance) organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of non-resident insurance brokers of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 520. Original section/article: 231. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020).

Section 521. Original section/article: 232. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligation on notification, as well as untimely notification of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on opening or termination of the activity of branches and (or) representations of financial organizations
Footnote. Heading of

Section 522. Original section/article: 232. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020). 
Non-fulfillment of the obligation on notification, as well as untimely notification of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on opening or termination of the activity of branches and (or) representations of financial organizations shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 523. Original section/article: 232. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (effective 10 calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 524. Original section/article: 233. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Receipt or use of a loan, loan in violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, non-disbursement of funds of the state external loan within the period established by the loan agreement 
Footnote. The title of

Section 525. Original section/article: 233. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Obtaining by an individual entrepreneur or an organisation of a loan or preferential loan terms by submitting to a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan or an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations knowingly false information on the economic status, financial condition or collateral property of an individual entrepreneur or an organisation or on other circumstances of material importance for obtaining a loan or preferential loan terms, as well as failure to notify a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan or another creditor of the occurrence of circumstances that may entail termination of lending, cancellation of benefits or limitation of the amount of the allocated loan, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Using a budget loan for other than its intended purpose, if this action does not contain elements of a criminally punishable act, -
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Use of the funds of loans being guaranteed by the state and of the loan attracted under surety of the state for the purposes not provided by conditions of the loan and not provided by the contract of guarantee, as well as for crediting of the state bodies, shall –
entail a fine on the chief executive officers of a relevant legal entity-loan debtor on the loan having the state guarantee, their deputies or persons substituting them on which the relevant orders imposed the fulfillment of obligations, in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Failure to use the funds of the state external loan within the period established by the loan agreement –
entails a fine on officials in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purposes of part four of this article, an official should be understood as the first head of the budget program administrator responsible for the implementation of a budget investment project or an institutional project financed at the expense of loans.
Footnote.

Section 526. Original section/article: 233. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 527. Original section/article: 234. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Untimely, incomplete crediting of revenues into republican and local budgets
1. Untimely, incomplete crediting of the funds coming into republican and local budgets, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Untimely, incomplete crediting of funds transferred to accounts of recipients of budgetary funds in relevant banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan or organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 528. Original section/article: 234. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 529. Original section/article: 234-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Ineffective planning and (or) ineffective use of budget funds
Ineffective planning and (or) ineffective use of budget funds, expressed in:
exceeding the approved natural standards;
absence of documents stipulated by the budgetary legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan (feasibility study, financial and economic justification, design and estimate documentation) and (or) decisions (opinions) on them of authorities and (or) organizations authorized by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan to submit such decisions (conclusions);
expenditure of budget funds for maintenance of facilities that are not listed on the balance sheet of the relevant administrator of budget programs, unless otherwise provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
expenditure of budget funds for maintenance of facilities not put into operation in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note.
For the purposes of this Article, officials should be understood as the head of the central state authority - the administrator of budget programs, the head of the local executive authority - the administrator of budget programs, the head of the budget program, the head of the subject of the quasi-public sector.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 530. Original section/article: 234-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 531. Original section/article: 235. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for keeping budgetary accounting, preparation and representation of reporting
Violation of rules for keeping budgetary accounting, preparation and representation of reporting, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 532. Original section/article: 236. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of conditions and procedures for extending budget credits, state guarantees and warrantees of the state
Violation of conditions and procedures for extending budget credits, state guarantees and warrantees of the state, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 533. Original section/article: 237. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for compensation of expenses
1. Violation of rules for compensation of the expenses by administrators of budget programs on rendering of guaranteed volume of gratuitous medical assistance, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of one hundred of monthly calculation indices.

Section 534. Original section/article: 238. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement by individuals and civil servants
1. Non-fulfillment and (or) improper fulfillment of the obligations by individuals and civil servants provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement committed in the form of:
1) evasion of accounting;
2) preparation of distorted financial statements, concealment of data subject to reflection in accounting, entering into accounting documentation deliberately false information about the economic and financial activities of the organization, as well as destruction of accounting documentation;
3) appointment of a person to a position of senior accountant of public organization that does not have a certificate of professional accountant, shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. An official shall not be brought to an administrative responsibility provided in this Article in event of self-imposed elimination of violations, revealed on the results of a desk control within ten working days from the day following the date of delivery to the auditee of a notification on elimination of violations, revealed on the results of a desk control.
2. The distortion of the financial reporting for the purposes of this Article shall be a distortion in amount of more than twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 535. Original section/article: 238. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 536. Original section/article: 239. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accounting and financial reporting
Footnote. Heading of

Section 537. Original section/article: 239. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement by a legal entity committed in the form of:
1) evasion of accounting;
2) representation of knowingly false financial statement, refusal from representing financial statement, presentation with violation of established term or its non-representation without justifiable reason to founders (participants) of organizations in accordance with the constitutive documents, to the authorized body in the field of the state statistics at place of registration, to bodies of state control and supervision in accordance with their competence, to the depositary of financial statement;
3) preparation of distorted financial reporting, concealing of data subjected to reflection in business accounting, and equally destruction of accounting documents;
4) signing of financial statement by a senior accountant of the organization of public interest that is not a professional accountant, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Conduct of transactions without appropriate reflection of their results in accounting by financial organisations, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
entail a fine in the amount of twenty percent of a sum that was not considered, but no less than onу ргтвкув and no more than four thousand monthly calculation indices.
4. Accounting by financial organisations, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan in infringement of the requirements established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accounting and financial reporting, and accounting methods (principles), resulting in distortion of financial statements of financial organisations and reports of branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan based on accounting data, –
entail a fine in the amount of up to five percent of a sum that was not considered, but no less than one hundred and no more than four thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-submission, untimely submission of reports on its activity to the authorized body by accredited professional organizations of accountants and (or) organizations for professional certification of accountants in manner, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall - 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. The distortion of financial reporting, reporting according the accounting data for the purposes of parts one, two and four of this Article shall be a distortion of more than one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 538. Original section/article: 239. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28. 12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (for the procedure of enactment see

Section 539. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 540. Original section/article: 239-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure on conducting examinations by organizations for professional certification of accountants
1. Conducting of examinations on examination modules that do not comply with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accounting and financial reporting by the accredited organizations on the professional certification of accountants -
counting indicators.
2. The action, provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail the deprivation of the certificate of accreditation.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 541. Original section/article: 239-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 542. Original section/article: 240. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Divulgation of secrecy of accounting information
Divulgation of accounting information that is commercial secret by persons having an access to it, that did not inflict heavy damage, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 543. Original section/article: 241. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for accreditation established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement
1. Violation of rules for accreditation established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement, shall –
entail a notification on a legal entity.
2. The action provided by this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on a legal entity in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 544. Original section/article: 241. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 545. Original section/article: 242. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to perform the prudential regulations and (or) other norms and limits being compulsory for compliance by a manager of investment portfolio
Footnote.

Section 546. Original section/article: 242. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 547. Original section/article: 243. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure for presenting reports for purposes of monitoring currency operations by branches (representative offices) of foreign non-financial organizations 
1. Violation of terms for presentation of report on operations with residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan and non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan by branch (representative office) of a foreign non-financial organization provided by regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a notification.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report on operations with residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan and non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan by branch (representative office) of a foreign non-financial organization, provided by regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a notification.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 548. Original section/article: 243. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan №168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019).

Section 549. Original section/article: 244. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure for receiving an identification number for currency agreement or an account in foreign bank and providing information, documents and reports on them 
1. Violation by an individual entrepreneur or a legal entity of the term of application for assignment of an accounting number to a currency contract on export or import envisaged by the joint regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the public authority, which within its competence ensures the receipt of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, customs regulation in the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall entail a notification.
1-1. Breach by an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity of the term envisaged by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for applying for assignment of an accounting number to a currency contract on capital movement or an account in a foreign bank –
shall entail a warning.
2. Acts envisaged by paragraphs 1 or 1-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for individuals, twenty for small businesses and non-profit organisations, fifty for medium-sized businesses and one hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
3. Violation by an individual entrepreneur or a legal entity of the deadline for providing information and (or) documents confirming the occurrence, fulfillment and termination of obligations and (or) circumstances, that affect terms and (or) conditions of repatriation of national and (or) foreign currency, provided by a joint regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body responsible for ensuring tax revenues and other mandatory payments to the budget, –
shall entail a notification.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for small businesses and non-profit organisations, fifty for medium-sized businesses and one hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
5. Violation of the term for presentation of report on currency contract by an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity provided by regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the basis and (or) for execution of which capital operations, or an account in foreign bank with identification number shall be carried out –
shall entail a notification.
6. The action provided by part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, ten for small business entities and non-profit organisations, twenty for medium-sized business entities and forty for large business entities.
7. Presentation of incomplete and (or) unreliable report on currency contract by an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity, provided by regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis and (or) for execution of which capital operations, or an account in foreign bank with identification number shall be carried out, –
shall entail a notification.
8. The action provided by part seven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, ten for small business entities and non-profit organisations, twenty for medium-sized business entities and forty for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 550. Original section/article: 244. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan №168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); as amended by the Law dated 12.12.2023 № 24-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 551. Original section/article: 245. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealing a fact of the breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement by an auditor from the customers of conducting audit
Concealing a fact of the breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on business accounting and financial statement by an auditor from the customers of conducting audit, detected upon conduct of inspection, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices with deprivation of the qualification certificate "auditor".
Footnote.

Section 552. Original section/article: 245. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 553. Original section/article: 246. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Preparation of inaccurate audit report, as well as inaccurate audit opinion on taxes by an auditor and audit organization
Footnote. Title of

Section 554. Original section/article: 246. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Preparation of inaccurate audit report by an auditor and audit organization, with the exception of the case provided by

Section 555. Original section/article: 249. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on auditors in amount of eighty, on audit organization – in amount of one hundred eighty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term for carrying out of audit activity or without such.
2. Preparation of knowingly inaccurate audit report by an auditor and audit organization, shall –
entail a fine on auditors in amount of one hundred ten monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of qualification certificate, on audit organizations – in amount of two hundred twenty monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the license validity term for carrying out of audit activity.
3. The actions, provided by parts one or two of this Article, committed repeatedly by the auditor within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail deprivation of the qualification certificate.
4. The actions, provided by parts one or two of this Article, committed repeatedly by the audit organization within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail deprivation of a license to carry out audit activity.
5. Compilation of an unreliable audit report on taxes by an audit organization shall -
entail a fine on an audit organization in amount of two hundred percent of the sum of the contract on carrying out taxes audit, but not less than five hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. The action, provided by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on an audit organization in amount of two hundred and fifty percent from the sum of the contract on carrying out taxes audit, but not less than six hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 556. Original section/article: 246. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 12.12.2017, № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 557. Original section/article: 246-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for carrying out taxes audit, special purpose audit of subjects of quasi-state sector by audit organization
Violation of the procedure for carrying out taxes audit, special purpose audit of subjects of quasi-state sector by audit organization, with the exception of violations, entailing recognition of an audit report on taxes inadequate, shall – 
entail a fine on an audit organization in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1.Violation of the procedure for carrying out taxes audit in this Article shall be understood as non-compliance by the auditor organization with the obligations, established by the procedure for carrying out taxes audit by an audit organization, determined by the authorized state body, that regulates audit activity.
2. Violation of the procedure for conducting a special-purpose audit of quasi-public sector entities in this article means non-compliance by an audit organization with the obligations established by the procedure for conducting a special-purpose audit of quasi-public sector entities and submitting an audit opinion on a special-purpose audit of quasi-public sector entities determined by the Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan in coordination with authorized bodies for internal state audit, state property management and the central authorized body for state planning.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 558. Original section/article: 246-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 559. Original section/article: 247. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on audit activity
1. Carrying out of the types of activity by an audit organization not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on audit activity, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
3. Conduct of audit in the cases prohibited by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On audit activity”, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices with suspension of the license.
4. Failure to deliver the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations and failure to notify the audited financial organizations for which the conduct of audit shall be compulsory on violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan regulating the activity of financial market and financial organizations detected in a result of audit of these organizations, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
5. Untimely representation or non-representation, and equally representation of inaccurate details by accredited professional audit organizations to the relevant authorized bodies, information the provision of which is required in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on audit activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
6. Non-notification by audited entities represented by state institutions and state enterprises, legal entities with participation of the state, as well as subjects of the quasi-state sector to state audit and financial control bodies on violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan when using budget funds, loans, related grants, state assets and subjects of the quasi-state sector, state and guaranteed loans, as well as loans attracted under the guarantee of the state, identified as a result of the audit of these organizations, as well as a special purpose audit of quasi-state sector entities, shall –
entail a fine on the first leaders in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
7. Untimely representation or non-representation of reporting by audit organizations to the authorized body in accordance with qualification requirements and (or) information on insurance of own civil liability in the form approved by the authorized body, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
7-1. The action, provided in part seven of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall-
entail the deprivation of the license for audit activity.
8. Non-representation of audit report to the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations by audit organizations, shall – 
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred and seventy monthly calculation indices.
9. Violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on audit activities by accredited professional audit organizations, committed in the form of:
1) presence of deprivation of a license to carry out audit activity without a petition from such a professional organization at ten percent of the average number, but not less than five audit organizations - members of a professional organization for twelve calendar months;
2) non-elimination of the reasons, for which the warning letter of the authorized body was issued within three months;
3) excluded by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
4) violations of the Rules of accreditation systematically (more than twice in a row) during the year;
5) excluded by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
entail a fine in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the accreditation certificate.
10. Conducting of an obligatory audit by an audit organization, not complying with the minimum requirements for audit organizations that conduct compulsory audit, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculated indices.
11. Non-entry and (or) untimely entry of an audit organization into a professional audit organization within the terms provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Auditing activity", shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculated indices with the deprivation of the license.
Footnote.

Section 560. Original section/article: 247. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 13.05.2020 № 325-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of six calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 561. Original section/article: 248. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations linked with use and storage of personal seal of an auditor
1. Violation of requirements by an auditor on a proper storage and use of personal seal established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on audit activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time by an audit within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 562. Original section/article: 249. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Provision of untimely, inaccurate or incomplete information by the audited subject to audit organization
Provision of untimely, inaccurate or incomplete information by the audited subject to audit organization in the course of conduct of audit, that lead to preparation of inaccurate audit report, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 563. Original section/article: 250. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance from conduct of compulsory audit
Avoidance from conduct of compulsory audit or impeding its conducting, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 564. Original section/article: 251. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with requirement of repatriation of the national and (or) foreign currency 
Failure to comply with requirement of repatriation of the national and (or) foreign currency by individual entrepreneur or legal entity, committed in the form of non-crediting of the national and (or) foreign currency to banking accounts in the authorized banks: 
1) the national and (or) foreign currency revenue from export;
2) national and (or) foreign currency transferred by resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan in favor of non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan for calculations on import subjected to return due to non-fulfillment or incomplete fulfillment of the obligations by the non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entails a fine in the amount of twenty percent of the amount of unpaid national and (or) foreign currency.
Note. Responsibility for an offense provided for in this article occurs in cases when, after the expiration of the repatriation period, the amount of unpaid national and (or) foreign currency exceeds the threshold value above which the currency contracts for export or import are subject to control of fulfillment of the repatriation requirement in accordance with a joint regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body responsible for ensuring tax revenues and other mandatory payments to the budget, and if this action (inaction) does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act.
Footnote.

Section 565. Original section/article: 251. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan №168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); as amended by the Law dated 12.07.2023 № 24-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 566. Original section/article: 252. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conducting of currency operations with breach of currency legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Conduct of prohibited currency transactions between residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, making payments, as well as their acceptance and (or) making money transfers not via bank accounts in authorised banks, when such a requirement is established by the currency legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entail a warning.
1-1. Violation of the procedure of purchase and (or) sale of non-cash foreign currency in the internal currency market of the Republic of Kazakhstan, established by the regulatory legal act of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a warning.
2. Actions, provided for by parts one and 1-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship, non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred percent of a sum of the operation conducted with violation of established procedure.
Footnote.

Section 567. Original section/article: 252. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 568. Original section/article: 252-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of requirements to the foreign currency exchange operations in cash and conditions of functioning of exchange bureaux 
1. Failure of the authorised organisations to ensure daily availability on their bank accounts and (or) in the cash desk of the exchange bureau of money in tenge or foreign currency, as well as refined gold in bars (if any) in the amount of not less than one hundred percent of the minimum amount of the charter capital –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. An action (inaction) envisaged by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Breach by authorised banks and authorised organisations of the operating regime of exchange bureaus – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Failure to submit, untimely submission by the authorised banks and authorised organisations of notifications on temporary suspension of the activities of the exchange bureau for a period exceeding thirty calendar days, resumption of the activities of the exchange bureau – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Keeping in the premises of operating cash desks of exchange offices of authorised banks and authorised organisations money not related to their activities, as well as presence of unauthorised persons, apart from employees of this organisation, –
shall be punishable by a warning.
6. Actions (inaction) envisaged by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Conducting by the authorised banks and authorised organisations of operations on purchase and (or) sale of foreign currency in cash without the order on setting the exchange rates, placement of exchange rates of purchase and (or) sale of currencies on the information stand that do not comply with the purchase and sale rates established in the order on setting the exchange rates, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
8. Non-compliance by authorised banks and authorised organisations with the limits of deviation of the rate of purchase from the rate of sale of foreign currency established by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large-sized enterprises..
9. Failure by the authorised banks and authorised organisations to record in the register of registers of purchased and sold cash in foreign currency the last name, first name, patronymic (if it is stated in the identity document), individual identification number (if any), and in cases stipulated by the legislation - data of the identity document, legal address of the customer –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
10. Actions (inaction) envisaged by parts three, four, seven and nine of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 15 is supplemented by

Section 569. Original section/article: 252-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in line with the Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 570. Original section/article: 253. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of measures to protect the balance of payments
Footnote. The title of

Section 571. Original section/article: 253. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Infringement of balance of payments protection measures in part:
1) failure to perform the requirement to receive special permission of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for conduct of currency operation;
2) failure to perform the requirement of compulsory sale of foreign currency received by residents;
3) use of accounts in foreign banks;
4) failure to perform the requirements to the procedure for conduct of currency operations;
5) non-compliance with other temporary currency restrictions introduced by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a fine on individuals and legal entities in the amount of one hundred per cent of the amount of the transaction performed in violation of balance of payments protection measures.
Footnote.

Section 572. Original section/article: 253. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 573. Original section/article: 254. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal use of insider information
Footnote.

Section 574. Original section/article: 254. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 575. Original section/article: 255. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unfair advertisement of activity at securities market
Footnote.

Section 576. Original section/article: 255. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 577. Original section/article: 256. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements on provision of reporting, information, data by a professional participant of the securities market and other persons 
1. Repeated (two or more times during the twelve consecutive calendar months) non-provision and (or) untimely provision of reporting, data and (or) other requested information to the authorized body by a professional participant of the securities market, its participants (shareholders) and (or) affiliated persons shall -
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, fifty for small businesses and non-commercial organisations, one hundred for medium-sized businesses and two hundred for large businesses and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) filing of unreliable and (or) incomplete reports, data and (or) other requested information with the competent authority and (or) the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a professional securities market participant, its participants (shareholders) and (or) affiliates, including in the course of conducting inspections of the activities of securities market entities, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, fifty monthly calculation indices for small businesses and non-commercial organisations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Notes.
1. Reporting in part one of this Article shall mean: reporting submitted by the representative of bondholders, reporting of a major participant of the investment portfolio manager.
1-1. The reports in part two of this Article filed with the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall mean the reports filed under the securities market legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. A professional participant of the securities market, its participants (shareholders) and (or) affiliated persons shall not be subject to administrative liability, provided in part one of this Article, in case of provision of reporting, data and (or) other requested information not later than one day from the end of period of provision reporting, data and (or) other requested information.
3. A professional participant of the securities market, its participants (shareholders) and (or affiliated persons shall not be subject to administrative liability, provided in part two of this Article, in case of elimination of violations, liability for which is provided in part two of this Article, until the date of receipt of notification of the authorized body on committed violation.
Footnote.

Section 578. Original section/article: 256. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 579. Original section/article: 257. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rights of securities holders
1. Violation of shareholders’ rights, provided in

Section 580. Original section/article: 14. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On joint-stock companies", and (or) violation of the procedure for calling and holding the general meeting of shareholders, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Infringement by the issuer of the procedure and terms of payment of interest on bonds and (or) their redemption, established by the terms of issue of non-state bonds, –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation by the issuer of securities of the procedure and conditions of redemption of the placed securities, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) the prospectus of issue of these securities, and (or) failure to purchase of the securities placed by it in cases, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) the prospectus of issue of these securities, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 581. Original section/article: 257. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 582. Original section/article: 258. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure for consummation of transactions with securities and (or) derivative financial instruments, as well as conditions for conclusion of transactions
Footnote.

Section 583. Original section/article: 258. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 584. Original section/article: 259. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Committing acts for the purpose of manipulation on the securities market 
Footnote. The title of

Section 585. Original section/article: 259. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Committing actions by securities market entities and other persons for the purpose of manipulation in the securities market that do not have signs of a criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred for individuals, three hundred for small businesses, four hundred for medium businesses, and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Transactions by financial market entities for the purpose of manipulating prices (rates) of other financial instruments, including the market exchange rate, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and legal entities in amount of ten percent of the sum of transactions, committed for the purpose of manipulation.
Footnote.

Section 586. Original section/article: 259. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 587. Original section/article: 260. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure, conditions and terms of registration of transactions with securities and (or) procedure of maintaining the system of registers of securities holders, the system of accounting of nominal holding and (or) violation of the procedure, conditions and terms of confirmation of rights on securities by a professional participant of the securities market
Footnote. Title of

Section 588. Original section/article: 260. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Violation of the procedure, conditions and terms of registration of transactions with securities and (or) procedure of maintaining the system of registers of securities holders, the system of accounting of nominal holding and (or) violation of the procedure, conditions and terms of confirmation of rights on securities by a professional participant of the securities market, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offence, shall –
entail a fine on non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Excluded by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 589. Original section/article: 260. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 590. Original section/article: 261. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of conditions and procedure for issuance and (or) placement of non-state equity securities by issuer 
1. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) non-presentation and (or) untimely presentation of documents for introduction amendments and (or) additions on the issuer's personal accounts in the securities holders registry system by the issuer to the central depositary –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship, non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) violation of the procedure for placement of non-state equity securities by the issuer, except for the actions provided by part three of this Article, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship, non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the conditions and procedure for issuance and (or) placement non-state equity securities in the territory of foreign state by the issuer, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and (or) inclusion non-state equity securities in the list of securities of a stock exchange carrying out the activities in the territory of foreign state, –
shall entail a fine on legal entities in amount of fifty percent of a sum of money received from placement of equity securities.
4. Violation of the requirements for state registration for issuance of non-state equity securities by the issuer, repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) violation of the conditions for issuance non-state bonds by the issuer, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the securities market, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small and medium entrepreneurship in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. 
The issuers shall not be brought to administrative responsibility established by this Article if at the time of discovery of the offense the issuer:
deprived of a license for activities in the financial sphere and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, and shall be subject to compulsory liquidation or in the process of compulsory liquidation;
declared bankrupt by the court.
Footnote.

Section 591. Original section/article: 261. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 592. Original section/article: 262. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on securities market and on Joint Stock Companies 
1. Failure to comply with the procedure and (or) conditions established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Joint Stock Companies” by subject of securities market, when making a major transaction and (or) an interested-party transaction, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Making of a transaction with financial instruments by professional securities market participant under his professional activity on securities market, the conditions of which contradict the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on securities market, and (or) a transaction for which the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on securities market, the grounds shall be provided for refusal to make it, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Making of a transaction by broker and (or) dealer without having a client order at the time of its making – 
shall entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions of insiders on using of insider information in making transactions with securities and (or) derivative financial instruments, illegal transfer of insider information to third parties, provision of recommendations or proposals on making transactions with securities and (or) derivative financial instruments based on insider information, and (or) failure to comply with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on provision of information to issuers by legal entities, recognized insiders in respect of these issuers, not having the elements of criminally punishable act, if these actions have not caused major damage, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred for an individual, four hundred monthly calculation indices for an official, three hundred monthly calculation indices for small businesses or non-commercial organisations, four hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
5. Violation of the requirements by issuers established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in terms of exercising control over the disposal and use of insider information on the issuer and securities (derivative financial instruments) issued (represented) by him –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Repeated (two or more times within six consecutive calendar months) disclosure of unreliable and (or) incomplete information by subject of securities market and (or) non-disclosure of information on own activities within the established periods, in the manner and on conditions determined by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note.
By information on own activities for the purposes of part six of this Article shall be meant information subjected to disclosure by securities market entity in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on securities market.
The securities market entities shall not be subject to administrative responsibility, provided by part six of this Article, in the case of:
1) disclosure of information in accordance with the procedure and on the conditions determined by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, no later than one working day from the end of the terms established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for disclosure this information;
2) if at the time of discovery of the offense the securities market entity:
deprived of a license for activities in the financial sphere and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, and shall be subject to compulsory liquidation or in the process of compulsory liquidation;
declared bankrupt by the court.
7. Announcement or publication by a professional securities market participant operating in the securities market based on a licence of the competent authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations of an advertisement that does not correspond to reality as of the date of its publication, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) non-submission and (or) untimely submission by the nominee holder of electronic data on the nominee holder's sub-account opened in the central depository's accounting system in the nominee holder's name and intended for aggregated accounting of financial instruments owned by its clients, to the central depository for safekeeping in the order and within the terms established by the set of rules of the central depository, –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large-sized enterprises.
9. Repeated (two or more times within twelve consecutive calendar months) submission by a nominee holder of inaccurate and (or) incomplete electronic data on the nominee holder's sub-account opened in the accounting system of the central depository in the name of the nominee holder and intended for aggregated accounting of financial instruments belonging to its clients to the central depository for safekeeping in the amounts and in compliance with the procedure established by the set of rules of the central depository, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large-sized enterprises.
Footnote.

Section 593. Original section/article: 262. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 594. Original section/article: 263. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation on disclosure of information at securities market
Footnote.

Section 595. Original section/article: 263. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 596. Original section/article: 264. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the securities market by the unified accumulative pension fund, voluntary accumulative pension fund and investment portfolio manager
Footnote. The title of

Section 597. Original section/article: 264. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure of the unified accumulative pension fund, voluntary accumulative pension fund to keep individual records of pension savings, including those held in trust by the investment portfolio manager, –
shall entail a penalty for legal entities in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Infringement by the investment portfolio manager of the procedure for interaction with securities market entities in the course of investment portfolio management for the purpose of execution of investment decisions taken, the procedure for execution of the terms and conditions of the investment portfolio management agreement, custodial agreement concluded between the custodian, investment portfolio manager and (or) unified accumulative pension fund, voluntary accumulative pension fund, as well as the terms and conditions of the agreement on trust management of pension assets concluded between the unified accumulative pension fund and the investment portfolio manager, which did not cause major damage, – 
shall entail a penalty for legal entities in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Execution by the unified accumulative pension fund at the expense of its own assets or by the voluntary accumulative pension fund of transactions and operations at the expense of its own or pension assets in breach of the requirements to the availability of an investment decision for making a transaction, the type of market where the transaction is made, the method and manner of concluding the transaction, the price parameters of the transaction, the principle of settlements under the transaction, the list of financial instruments, allowed for purchase, the amount (limit) of investment in financial instruments, the term of placement of assets into deposits (deposits), a ban on certain types of transactions, investment of pension assets in violation of the investment declaration, as well as the implementation by the unified accumulative pension fund of transactions in violation of the requirements for reconciliation of pension assets held in trust by the investment portfolio manager, –
shall entail a penalty for legal entities in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 598. Original section/article: 264. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 599. Original section/article: 265. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On investment and venture funds" 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 600. Original section/article: 265. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 174-VІ dated 04.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Violation of requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On investment and venture funds” by joint stock investment fund, management company of investment fund to the content of information on own activity, indices characterizing the composition and value of net assets of investment fund, as well as procedure for its publication and distribution,–
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Distribution or publication of inadequate, incomplete or misinforming information by an incorporated investment fund, manager company of investment fund, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 601. Original section/article: 265. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 174-VІ dated 04.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 602. Original section/article: 266. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of restrictions established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on payments conducting
Execution by individual entrepreneurs, who are registered as payers of value added tax or legal entities of payment in cash procedure on a civil law transaction for the amount of more than one thousand monthly calculation indices in favor of another individual entrepreneur who is on the registration account as a tax payer on value added, or legal entity shall -
entail a fine on the persons, who made the payment in amount of five percent of the payment sum.
Footnote.

Section 603. Original section/article: 266. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 604. Original section/article: 267. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal actions of civil servants of the state institution and state enterprise based on the right of operational management (treasury enterprise) on incurrence of pecuniary liability on account of the funds of state budget
1. Illegal actions of civil servants of the state institution or state enterprise based on the right of operational management (treasury enterprise) on incurrence of pecuniary liability on account of the funds of state budget without registration of civil transactions established by the legislation and (or) in excess of the sums of cost estimations approved by the authorized body that entailed liability of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the relevant local executive body on obligations of the state institution or state enterprise based on the right of operational management (treasury enterprise), shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 605. Original section/article: 268. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on goods exchange
1. Participation of employees of goods exchange in exchange transactions, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Carrying out of commercial or another activity by goods exchange that is not linked directly with organization of exchange business, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Sale of goods included into the list of exchange commodities outside the goods exchange, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seventy, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
5. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
6. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
7. Non-fulfillment, untimely fulfillment by the commodity exchange of the obligation to place the results of exchange trades on its own Internet resource shall –
entail a notification.
8. The acts provided in part seven of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on a legal entity in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. Non-observance by the commodity exchange of obligatory requirements to the electronic trading system of commodity exchanges shall – 
entail a notification.
10. The action provided by part nine of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on a legal entity in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Failure to submit, late submission or knowingly false reporting by commodity exchanges to the antimonopoly authority –
shall entail a notification.
12. Actions provided by part eleven of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on a legal entity in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
13. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
14. Excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
15. Non-fulfillment by the clearing centers of commodity exchanges of the obligation for the availability of a hardware-software complex, that provides automation of the clearing process –
entail a fine on a legal entity in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 606. Original section/article: 268. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.10.2015 № 364-V (for the procedure of enforcement see

Section 607. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 16. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD
OF TAX ASSESSMENT

Section 608. Original section/article: 269. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the term for registration in the state revenues body
1. Violation of the terms established by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan for submission of a tax application for registration in the state revenue body of a private notary, a private bailiff, a lawyer and notification on registration of an individual entrepreneur, registration records for certain types of activities shall -
entail a notification.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eight, on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the term established by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan for filing tax application to the state revenues body by a tax payer on registration on value added tax, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 609. Original section/article: 269. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 610. Original section/article: 270. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal carrying out of activity upon applying special tax regime
1. Applying special tax regime with violation of conditions provided by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan for this regime, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the term by an individual entrepreneur for filing cost calculation of patent or tax application on suspension (prolongation, renewal) of representing tax reporting, shall –
entail a notification.
4. The act provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.

Section 611. Original section/article: 271. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of activity during the period of validity term of decision of the state revenues body on suspension of representing tax reporting
1. Carrying out of activity by persons during the period of validity term of decision of the state revenues body on suspension of representing tax reporting, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notaries, judicial enforcement agent, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 612. Original section/article: 272. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to submit tax reporting, documents, required to determine the financial profit of a controlled foregin company, as well as submission of incomplete, unreliable data in tax reporting
Footnote. The heading of

Section 613. Original section/article: 272. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021).
1. Failure to submit tax reporting to the state revenue body within the period established by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a warning.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article, with the exception of the act mentioned in a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on private notary officers, on judicial enforcement agent, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Submission of incomplete, inaccurate information in the declaration of assets and liabilities, declaration of income and property, declaration of individual income tax, provided for by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of cases involving the accrual of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, shall – 
entail a warning.
2-2. The actions provided for by part 2-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine in the amount of трех monthly calculation indices.
3. The act provided in part one of this Article, expressed in non-submission of tax registers in the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on taxpayers subject to tax monitoring in amount of five hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018). 
5. Non - submission by a taxpayer to the state revenue body the documents necessary fo determining the amount of financial profit or part of the financial profit of a controlled foreign company subject to taxation in accordance with the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax code), shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. Provisions of parts 2-1 and 2-2 of this Article shall not apply in case of failure to indicate information about assets and liabilities in the declaration of assets and liabilities if such information is available in the relevant state bodies.
Footnote.

Section 614. Original section/article: 272. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021);

Section 615. Original section/article: 273. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-presentation, refusal to present reporting on monitoring transactions, reporting on transfer pricing, documents necessary to exercise control over transfer pricing 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 616. Original section/article: 273. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 122-VI dated 25.12.2017 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019).
1. Non-representation of reporting to the state revenues body on monitoring of transactions within the term established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on transfer pricing, as well as non-representation within the term established by the authorized body, or refusal in representation of documents by a taxpayer (as well as in electronic form) required for control upon transfer pricing, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Detection of discrepancies of more than two thousand-fold amount of monthly calculation index established for the relevant financial year by the Law on republican budget between reporting data on monitoring of transactions and data received in the course of inspection, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within the year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-presentation, unreliable or incomplete presentation, refusal of presentation of reporting to state revenue agency by the taxpayer on transfer pricing within the terms established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on transfer pricing, – 
shall entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Actions (inaction) provided by part four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within the year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 617. Original section/article: 273. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 122-VI dated 25.12.2017 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019).

Section 618. Original section/article: 274. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of measures of financial control
Footnote.

Section 619. Original section/article: 274. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021).

Section 620. Original section/article: 275. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealment of objects of taxation and other property subject to reflection in tax reporting
Footnote. Title of the

Section 621. Original section/article: 275. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the law of Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-IV (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
1. Concealment of items of taxation by a tax payer, shall –
shall entail a fine on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship, on subjects of large entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred percent of a tax amount and other compulsory payments subjected to payment on concealed item of taxation.
2. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail a fine on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship, on subjects of large entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred percent of a tax amount and other compulsory payments subjected to payment on concealed item of taxation.
Note. For the purpose of a part one of this Article, the concealed items of taxation shall be also regarded as non-acceptance of goods for registration by a tax payer, imported in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from a territory of the Customs Union member states.
3. Concealment by an individual of information on the availability of property by right of ownership outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as money in bank accounts in foreign banks located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, to be reflected in the declaration of assets and liabilities, income and property declaration, individual income tax declaration in compliance with the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed by failing to reflect them in the declaration of assets and liabilities, income and property declaration, individual income tax declaration, –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note!

Section 622. Original section/article: 275. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
shall be supplemented with Part 3-1 in line with Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.01.2027). 
4. Non-elimination of violations established by part three of this Article, within a year after imposing an administrative penalty shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Making a turnover for the period of non-registration as a value added tax payer shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen percent of the sum of turnover for the period of non-registration.
Notes. 1. For the purposes of part one of this Article, the concealment of objects of taxation shall also be understood as the failure by the taxpayer to register goods imported into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the territory of states - member of the Eurasian economic union.
2. For the purposes of parts three and four of this Article, administrative responsibility shall arise separately for each object of property, subject to state or other registration (accounting), rights and (or) transactions on which they are subject to state or other registration (accounting) in the competent authority of a foreign state in accordance with the legislation of a foreign state, as well as for each bank account in foreign banks located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. For the purposes of part three of this Article, non-submission of declaration on individual income tax by a person in accordance with the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be equal to non-reflection of information on existence of property on the right of ownership outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as money on bank accounts of foreign banks located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. For the purposes of part five of this Article, committing of turnover means taxable turnover, determined in accordance with the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 623. Original section/article: 275. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 624. Original section/article: 276. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence of accounting records and violation of maintaining of tax account
1. Absence of accounting records and (or) non-compliance with requirements on drawing up and keeping of accounting records established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a notification.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-reflection of operations in accounting documentation on accounting and sale of goods (works, services), shall –
entail a notification.
Note. The absence of accounting documentation of a tax payer shall be regarded as absence of accounting documents and (or) tax forms, tax accounting policy, other documents being the ground for determination of items of taxation and (or) objects linked with taxation, as well as for calculation of tax liability.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of ten percent of the cost of unaccounted goods (works, services).
Note. Absence of accounting documents at the taxpayer means the absence of accounting documents and (or) tax forms, tax accounting policy, other documents that are the basis for determining the objects of taxation and (or) objects related to taxation, as well as for calculating tax liability.
Footnote.

Section 625. Original section/article: 276. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended By the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 626. Original section/article: 277. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance from payment of accrued (calculated) tax amounts and other compulsory payments into the budget
Avoidance from payment of accrued (calculated) tax amounts and other compulsory payments into the budget committed by making settlement payments by a tax payer with third parties in existence of debts in the period of validation of a regulation of the state revenues body on suspension of debit operations on cash register, unless this action contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of a sum of made calculations.

Section 627. Original section/article: 278. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Undervaluation of tax amounts and other compulsory payments into the budget
1. Undervaluation of tax amounts and other compulsory payments in a declaration, calculation, application on entry of goods and payment of indirect taxes, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten monthly calculation indices, on private notaries, judicial enforcement agents, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty percent of accrued tax amount and other compulsory payments into the budget.
2. Undervaluation of current payment amounts by a tax payer in a calculation, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of undervalued current payment amounts.
3. Excess of the amount of actually calculated corporate income tax for the tax period over the amount of calculated advance payments within the tax period in the amount of more than twenty per cent –
entail a fine in amount of twenty percent of the sum of excess of the actual tax.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
Note.
1. For the purpose of a part one of this Article, upon determination of a sum of administrative sanction on accrued amount of value added tax, the sum of overpay on value added tax on a separate account of a tax payer shall be considered on a date of established term for payment of the value added tax for tax period.
In case of tax inspection of more than one tax period, the sum of overpay on a separate account on a date of established term for payment for each following tax period shall be determined in consideration of accrued and (or) undervalued amount of the value added tax for the previous tax periods included into this tax inspection.
2. For the purpose of a part one of this Article in case, if the person is subject to administrative liability for undervaluation of indirect tax amounts in the application on entry of goods and payment of indirect taxes, such person shall not be subject to administrative liability separately for undervaluation of the mentioned indirect tax amounts in a declaration on indirect taxes on imported goods.
3. For the purpose of a part three of this Article, the person shall be also subject to administrative liability in case of non-representation of advance payments within the tax period on corporate income tax subjected to representation in accordance with the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. By this, the accrued amount of advance payments shall be equated to zero.
4. For the purposes of part three of this Article, when determining the excess, the following shall not be taken into account:
excess formed in connection with the adjustment of the tax on mining in accordance with paragraph 3 of

Section 628. Original section/article: 742. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget" (Tax code);
corporate income tax, calculated from the total profit of controlled foreign companies or permanent establishments of controlled foreign companies, determined in accordance with

Section 629. Original section/article: 297. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget" (Tax code).
Footnote.

Section 630. Original section/article: 278. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 631. Original section/article: 279. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligation by a tax agent on deduction and (or) transfer of taxes
1. Non-deduction or partial deduction of tax amounts by a tax agent subjected to deduction and (or) transfer into the budget, within the term established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty percent of non-deducted tax amount and other compulsory payments.
2. Non-transfer or incomplete transfer of deducted tax amounts by a tax agent subjected to transfer into the budget, within the term established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, advocates, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Note. The person shall not be subject to bringing to administrative liability provided by this Article on deducted (subjected to deduction) tax amounts detected by a tax agent on an individual basis and mentioned in additional tax reporting, upon condition of their transfer into the budget no later than three business days from the date of representation of additional tax reporting to the state revenues body.

Section 632. Original section/article: 280. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Statement of dummy invoice
Statement of dummy invoice by a tax payer, shall –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred percent of amount of value added tax included into the invoice.
Note. Dummy invoice shall be regarded as the invoice made by a payer that is not registered on value added tax, and equally by a person that in fact did not perform works, render services, dispatch goods and including the amount on value added tax.
Footnote.

Section 633. Original section/article: 280. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 634. Original section/article: 280-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for invoices statement, as well as violation of the accounting system for the movement of goods included in the list
1. Non-statement of an invoice in electronic form by a taxpayer shall -
entail a notification.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Statement of the invoice by a taxpayer in electronic form with violation of the term shall –
entail a notification.
4. The action provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Absence of shipping documents certified by the seal of state revenue authorities, registration of which is envisaged when exporting goods, included in the list in violation of the goods movement accounting system, outside the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. The action provided by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. The goods included in the list should be understood as goods, the code of the single Commodity nomenclature for foreign economic activity of the Eurasian economic union and which name is included in the list of goods in accordance with the protocol on certain issues of import and circulation of goods on the customs territory of the Eurasian economic union, ratified by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.12.2015.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented by

Section 635. Original section/article: 280-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 636. Original section/article: 281. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of the state regulation of production and turnover of separate types of oil products and sub-excise goods, with the exception of biofuel, ethyl alcohol and alcohol products
1. Failure to submit or late submission of declarations for oil products, tobacco products, as well as failure to submit or late submission of information necessary for monitoring,
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Unreliable indication of the volume of petroleum products, the quantity of tobacco products, as well as inaccurate indication of the personal identification code number for petroleum products in declarations for petroleum products, for tobacco products, in the information necessary for monitoring, –
entail entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of forty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2-2. Acts provided by part 2-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of the state regulation of production and turnover of tobacco products committed in the form of:
1) refusal in representation of details to the authorized body or representation of inaccurate information in the scope of production and turnover of tobacco products, and equally non-representation of information within thirty calendar days in written form on introduced amendments and supplements in a production passport;
2) production of tobacco products not by address stated in a license, on equipment that do not conform to requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) non-carrying out of activity on production of tobacco products within the year from the date of issuance of a license, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of a license.
4. Acts provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a tear after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of nine hundred monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of a license.
5. Violation of conditions of production and (or) turnover of separate types of oil products and sub-excise goods, with the exception of biofuel, ethyl alcohol and alcohol products committed in the form of:
1) turnover of ethylated petrol and (or) slop oil products, as well as their storage without the further processing by individuals and (or) legal entities;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); 
3) sale of oil products by the persons, with the exception of oil producers and oil suppliers, not from the oil product depots, gas filling stations;
4) breaking of seals on control metering instruments;
5) turnover (except for export) of tobacco products with the prices lower than minimal prices established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) sale of oil products from gas filling stations of movable type on agricultural lands at the places of concentration of agricultural vehicles at field works;
7) turnover of oil products including metallic additives (iron, manganese, led and others, except for antistatic additives for diesel fuel) by individuals and (or) legal entities;
8) sales and (or) shipment of certain types of petroleum products by petroleum product manufacturers, oil suppliers, wholesale suppliers of petroleum products or retail sellers of petroleum products without control metering devices or bypassing control metering devices, except for cases of sale and (or) shipment of certain types of petroleum products from petroleum product depots;
9) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25. 12. 2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); 
10) sale of petroleum products by wholesale suppliers of petroleum products that purchase oil products from producers, suppliers of oil, importers not to retail sellers of oil product or not to final consumers, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of oil products, tobacco products that are direct objects of an administrative offense, and (or) income, derived from committing an offense, or without it.
6. The actions provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of oil products, tobacco products that are direct objects of an administrative offense, and (or) income derived from the committing an offense.
7. Manufacture of gasoline and diesel fuel using metal-containing additives (iron, manganese, lead and others, except for antistatic additives for diesel fuel) through the fault of the producer of petroleum products shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Stopping the operation of technological installations due to the fault of the producer of petroleum products, used for production of petroleum products without the consent of the authorized body in the field of production of petroleum products, except for cases of the need to immediately prevent an emergency, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. Non-submission of an annual schedule for conducting of preventive maintenance of technological installations for approval to the authorized body in the field of production of petroleum products and (or) its non-compliance due to the fault of the producer of petroleum products –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Non-fulfillment of the minimum volumes of production of petroleum products established by the authorized body in the field of production of petroleum products due to the fault of the producer of petroleum products shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 637. Original section/article: 281. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 500-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.12.2017, № 122-VI (see order of enforcement

Section 638. Original section/article: 11. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 12.12.2017, № 126-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28. 12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 639. Original section/article: 282. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the state regulation of production and turnover of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products
1. Non-presentation or untimely presentation of a declaration for ethyl alcohol and (or) alcohol products, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Inaccurate reflection of the volume of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products, as well as inaccurate indication of the personal identification number-code for ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products in the declaration for ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2-2. Acts provided by part 2-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the conditions of turnover and movement of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products committed in the form of:
1) storage and sale of alcohol products outside the places established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) turnover of alcoholic beverages in containers and packages not established by the technical regulations;
3) turnover of alcoholic beverages in tin containers (except for brewing products and low-alcohol beverages), in bottles without labels and plastic containers (except for bottling of brewing products to the end consumer);
4) retail sale of vodkas and special vodkas, vodkas with a protected appellation of origin, strong alcoholic beverages, cognac and brandy below the minimum retail prices established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) storage and wholesale trade of alcohol products by two and more licensees in one storage capacity;
6) storage and sale without existence of the tools determining the security features of accounting- control marks and (or) reading information from accounting-control marks of alcohol products subjected to marking by accounting-control marks, -
7) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020). 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on legal entities that are the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of sub-excise goods that are the direct subject of infraction.
4. The actions provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of sub-excise goods,being the direct subject of infraction.
5. Violation of conditions of production of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcohol products committed in the form of:
1) non-representation of information by a producer on introduced amendments or supplements to production passport up to thirty calendar days from the date of introduction of amendments or supplements to production passport;
2) production of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic beverages without equipping technological lines with control metering devices, except for the production of wine in bulk, as well as brewing products, the production capacity of which is below four hundred thousand decaliters per year;
3) production of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic beverages with faulty control metering devices, as well as with excess deviations in accounting, except for the production of wine in bulk, as well as brewing products, the production capacity of which is below four hundred thousand decaliters per year;
4) production of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products by two and more licensees at one and the same stationary premises and equipment, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of a license.
6. The act provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of nine hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
7. Violation of the conditions of production and turnover of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcohol products committed in the form of:
1) carrying out of activity in the period of suspension of the license validity term on such activity;
2) production of alcohol products from ethyl alcohol produced not from food raw materials, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
8. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018). 
9. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018). 
10. Non-compliance with the minimum percentage of production capacity use and minimum production volumes in the production of ethyl alcohol, vodkas and special vodkas, vodkas with a protected designation of origin in accordance with technical regulations –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand of monthly calculation indices, with suspension of a license.
11. The act provided by a part ten of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one thousand, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
12. Storage and sale of alcohol products in the buildings and in the territories of public health, education, health and fitness organizations, sports and sporting technical structures, gas filling stations, trade markets, cultural leisure organizations, shall – entail suspension of the license validity term.
13. The actions provided by a part twelve of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail deprivation of the license.
Footnote.

Section 640. Original section/article: 282. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.10.2015, № 364-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.12.2017, № 122-VI (order of enforcement see

Section 641. Original section/article: 11. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (see

Section 642. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
for the procedure for entry into force).

Section 643. Original section/article: 283. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of labeling (re-labeling) of alcoholic beverages, with the exception of wine in bulk, brewing products, accounting and control marks and tobacco products by means of identification 
Footnote. The title of

Section 644. Original section/article: 283. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation by the manufacturer or importer of the rules of labeling (re-labeling) of alcoholic beverages, with the exception of wine in bulk, brewing products, accounting and control marks and tobacco products by means of identification –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of excisable goods, which were the direct objects of an offense, and with the deprivation of a license.
2. Turnover of excisable goods subject to labeling by means of identification and (or) accounting and control marks, made in the form of storage, sale and (or) transportation of excisable products without means of identification and (or) accounting and control marks, as well as with stamps and means of identification of an unidentified sample and (or) not identifiable, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of excisable goods that are direct object of an offense, and with deprivation of a license.
Footnote.

Section 645. Original section/article: 283. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 646. Original section/article: 283-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to submit or untimely submission of accompanying invoices for goods, inconsistency of names, unreliable indication of the quantity (volume) of goods in the accompanying invoice for goods, as well as unreliable indication in the accompanying invoice for goods of a personal identification code number for petroleum products, ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products, biofuel 
Footnote. The title of

Section 647. Original section/article: 283-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Non-presentation or untimely presentation of accompanying invoices for goods –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Act provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices. 
3. Inconsistency of the name, unreliable indication of the quantity (volume) of goods in the accompanying invoice for goods, as well as unreliable indication in the accompanying invoice for goods of a personal identification code number for petroleum products, ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products, biofuel –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices. 
4. Acts provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fourty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices. 
5. Failure to prepare accompanying invoices for goods, as well as the turnover of certain types of petroleum products, biofuels, circulation and movement of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products without accompanying invoices for goods –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for small businesses - in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products, certain types of petroleum products, biofuels that are the direct subjects of an administrative offense, and (or) income, money received as a result of an administrative offense.
6. Act provided by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of forty, for small businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of two hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices with confiscation of ethyl alcohol and (or) alcoholic products, certain types of petroleum products, biofuels that are the direct subjects of an administrative offense, and (or) income, money received as a result of an administrative offense.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented by

Section 648. Original section/article: 283-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 649. Original section/article: 284. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for using cash register machines
1. Non-use of cash register machine upon making cash settlements in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan performed during trading operations, performance of works, rendering of services by cash money, as well as use of defective or unregistered cash register machine in the state revenues body at place of use, shall –
entail a notification.
2. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-issuance of a receipt of cash register machine or sales check or issuance of a receipt of cash register machine or sales check in amount of more or less than the sum paid for goods or service, shall – entail a notification.
4. The act provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
5. Violation of the terms for filing a tax application for introduction of amendments into the registration data of cash register machine, substitution (restoration) of record book of cash money or sales check book, as well as upon technical defect of the cash register machine, elimination of which is impossible without violation of the integrity of a seal of the state revenues body, shall –
entail a notification.
6. The act provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Non-indication of one or several following requisites in a control check of cash register machine:
1) name of a tax payer;
2) identification number;
3) factory number of a cash register machine;
4) registration number of cash register machine in the state revenues body;
5) index number of a check;
6) date and time of purchasing goods, performance of works, rendering of services;
6-1) identity verification tools;
7) price of goods, work, service and (or) sum of purchase;
8) a fiscal indication or non-reflection in the control check of the hardware and software systems (except for hardware and software systems used by banks and organizations that perform certain types of banking operations) of one or more details specified in subparagraphs 1) to 7) of this part, -
entail a notification.
8. The act provided by a part seven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
9. Non-filling of a record book of cash money during the operation of cash register machine or non-conformance of indications of the shift reports to the data of the record book of cash money on the relevant date, or failure to record in the record book of cash money upon carrying out of operations in the cash register machine on cancellation of wrongly introduced sum or return of cash money for the sold goods, performed works, rendered services, shall –
entail a notification.
10. The act provided by a part nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
11. Non-conformance of the indications of a report on current state of a cashier to the sum of cash money in the cashier at the moment of reading of the fiscal report considering the sums of acceptance and disbursal of cash money not linked with sales of goods, performance of works, rendering of services indicated in a record book of cash money detected in the course of tax inspection, shall –
entail a notification.
12. The act provided by a part eleven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
13. Violations of the terms for retention of the shift report, record book of cash money, sales checks, registration card of cash register machine, annulment or return check, as well as control check on which the operation of annulment or return is conducted, established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a notification.
14. The act provided by a part thirteen of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
15. Conduct of operations in cash register machine on cancellation of wrongly entered sum or return of cash money for sold goods, performed works, rendered services without existence of original of a control check for the sold goods, performed works, rendered services, shall –
entail a notification.
16. The act provided by a part fifteen of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
17. Violation of the term for presenting cash register machine to the state revenues body for installation of seals after elimination of technical defectdefect of the cash register machine, the elimination of which is impossible without violation of integrity of the seal of the state revenues body, shall –
entail a notification.
18. The act provided by a part seventeen of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
19. Violation of the procedure for receiving and storing information from cash registers with the function of fixing and (or) transmitting data on cash settlements carried out when selling goods, performing works, rendering services by the operator of fiscal data, and also transferring them to state revenue authorities –
shall entail a notification.
20. The action provided by part nineteen of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail a fine on operator of fiscal data in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 650. Original section/article: 284. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall be enforced on January 1, 2026).

Section 651. Original section/article: 285. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to fulfil obligations established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Title of

Section 652. Original section/article: 285. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to fulfil obligations established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed in the form of:
1) failure to notify the state revenue authorities of the opening of bank accounts for a taxpayer - a legal entity, including a non-resident, its structural units, an individual registered as an individual entrepreneur or a person engaged in private practice, a foreigner and a stateless person, or the change of an individual identification code for a bank account in cases, envisaged by the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, pursuant to the procedure and within the terms established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and Other Obligatory Payments to the Budget” (Tax Code);
2) conducting transactions on clients' bank accounts without identification number in payment documents (excluding promissory notes and payment documents based on which cash is accepted and issued by a bank or branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan);
3) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) non-suspension by the order of the state revenue authorities of expenditure transactions within the amount of tax debt specified in such order, on bank accounts (save for correspondent accounts) of an individual registered as an individual entrepreneur or a person engaged in private practice, a legal entity, a structural unit of a legal entity, a structural unit of a non-resident legal entity operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan through a permanent establishment, in the manner established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) non-representation of a report on monetary movement to the state revenues body within the term established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, placed on a conditional banking deposit within accounting quarter, in existence of such monetary movement in the form established by the authorized body;
6) opening a new bank account for its client if the latter has an open bank account in this bank, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to which the state revenue authorities have issued collection orders or orders to suspend debit transactions on the taxpayer's bank accounts;
7) opening a bank account to an inactive taxpayer, a taxpayer having a tax debt, arrears of social payments, information about it is posted on the Internet resource of the authorized body –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of five per cent of the amount of performed debit transactions on bank accounts of taxpayers for the period of non-performance by a bank, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the obligations established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Non-transfer or untimely transfer by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations of amounts of taxes to the budget placed under conditional bank deposit agreements, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty percent of a sum of non-transferred or untimely transferred tax and other compulsory payment into the budget placed on a conditional bank deposit.
2-1. Failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to execute, on a priority basis, the taxpayer's payment order for payment of taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget, collection orders of state revenue authorities for the recovery of taxes, other obligatory payments, penalties and fines - not later than one operational day following the day of receipt of the instruction of the taxpayer or state revenue authorities, –
entail a fine in amount of five percent of the sum not listed on the payment order, or an unsettled collection order.
3. Failure by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations to fulfil obligations established by tax legislation, committed in the form of:
1) failure to notify the state revenue authorities of the closure of bank accounts to a taxpayer - a legal entity, including a non-resident, its structural units, an individual registered as an individual entrepreneur or a person engaged in private practice, a foreigner and a stateless person in compliance with the procedure and within the terms established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and Other Obligatory Payments to the Budget” (Tax Code);
2) acceptance of payment documents for payment of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, social deductions, deductions and (or) contributions to compulsory social health insurance, transfer of mandatory pension contributions and mandatory professional pension contributions with incorrectly indicated identification number;
3) acceptance of payment documents in payment for taxes on a transport vehicle with incorrectly specified identification number of the transport vehicle;
4) non-notifying the authorized body on suspension of accrual of remuneration to an individual registered as an individual entrepreneur, or legal entity upon termination of recognizing incomes in the form of remuneration on provided credit (loan) – no later than 31 March of the year next to the accounting taxable period;
4-1) non-submission to state revenue authorities of information on contracts, containing conditions for the transfer of rights (claims) to collection agencies - no later than the 25th day of the month following the quarter;
5) non-transfer (non-crediting), untimely transfer (crediting) of the amount of taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget, obligatory pension contributions and obligatory professional pension contributions, social deductions, deductions and (or) contributions for obligatory social medical insurance or making mistakes in filling in the details of the payment document due to the fault of the bank, branch of the bank - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan or an organisation engaged in certain types of banking operations, when transferring to a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan or another organisation engaged in cash execution of the budget system, the amount of taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget, penalties and fines;
6) non-admission of a civil servant of the state revenues bodies for inspection of availability of money and committed operations on banking accounts of the inspected individual registered as an individual entrepreneur, private notary officer, private officer of justice, advocate or legal entity;
7) non-notifying the state revenues body on occurrence of the income of a tax payer- loan debtor from writing off of obligations within thirty calendar days from the date of writing off of the obligations on provided credits (loans) from the loan debtor being an individual registered as an individual entrepreneur, or legal entity;
8) failure to provide, within ten working days from the date of receipt of a request from the state revenue authority, information on the availability and numbers of bank accounts, on the balances and movement of money on these accounts with taxpayers, as well as on loans granted to the inspected individual, indicating the repayment amounts, including remuneration, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
9) non-submission, untimely, unreliable or incomplete submission of information by telecommunication network on availability (opening), bank account numbers and money balances on these accounts, as well as the availability, type and value of other assets, including those placed on metal accounts or located in the management of individuals and legal entities - non-residents, as well as legal entities whose beneficial owners are non-residents, as well as at the request of state revenue authorities -
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 653. Original section/article: 285. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.07.2017); dated 30.11.2016 № 26-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 12.12.2017, № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 654. Original section/article: 285-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure of custodians, brokers and (or) dealers entitled to maintain clients' accounts as nominee holders of securities, investment portfolio managers, insurance organisations, branches of insurance organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, collection agencies to fulfil obligations established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 655. Original section/article: 285-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Non-presentation, untimely, unreliable or incomplete presentation of the information on availability of accounts for securities accounting by custodians, brokers and (or) dealers holding the right for maintenance clients accounts as nominal holders of securities, opened to non-resident individuals, non-resident legal entities as well as legal entities whose beneficial owners shall be non-residents, as well as balances and securities flow in these accounts –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-submission, untimely, unreliable or incomplete submission of information on the availability of assets, except for those specified in part one of this Article, belonging to non-resident individuals, non-resident legal entities, as well as legal entities, beneficial owners of which are non-residents, by custodians, investment portfolio managers, shall -
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-submission, untimely, inaccurate or incomplete submission by an insurance company, a branch of an insurance company - non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, operating in the ‘life insurance’ sector, of information on concluded accumulation insurance agreements, the beneficiaries of which are non-resident individuals, –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-submission, untimely, unreliable or incomplete submission of information on contracts, containing conditions for the transfer of rights (claims) to the collection agency by collection agencies, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The Code is supplemented by

Section 656. Original section/article: 285-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.11.2016 № 26-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 657. Original section/article: 286. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representation of knowingly false details on banking operations
Submission by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations of knowingly false information on operations on bank accounts of legal entities or individuals, as well as issuance of sureties, guarantees and other obligations knowingly not secured by the actual financial standing of a given bank, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions have not caused major damage to an individual or legal entity or the state, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. Heavy damage inflicted to an individual shall be regarded as the sum exceeding two thousand, to legal entity – twenty thousand monthly calculation indices, as of the date of commission of the infraction.
Footnote.

Section 658. Original section/article: 286. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 659. Original section/article: 287. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution of the duties established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by taxpayers when exporting and importing of goods, fulfilling of works, providing of services in the Eurasian economic union, as well as non-fulfillment of the requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by persons 
Footnote. Title of

Section 660. Original section/article: 287. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Non-payment, incomplete payment or untimely payment of indirect taxes within the term established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-representation of the obligations by a tax payer on import (export) of products after processing to the state revenues body and their non-fulfillment, provided by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-notification or untimely notification of state revenue authorities in the following cases:
1) upon temporary import of goods into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the territory of the states-members of the Eurasian economic union, which in the future will be exported from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without changing the properties and characteristics of the imported goods;
2) upon temporary export of goods from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the territory of the states-members of the Eurasian economic union, which in the future will be imported into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without changing the properties and characteristics of the exported goods, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of the terms for processing of raw materials, exported from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the territory of a state-member of the Eurasian economic union, as well as imported into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the territory of a state-member of the Eurasian economic union, established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall – 
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty percent of the sum of assessed taxes.
5. Non-notifying or untimely notification by an organizer of the exhibition-fair trade, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Violation of the procedure for organizing exhibition fair trade by an organizer, shall –
entails a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 127-VI dated 28.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Note. For the purposes of part one of this Article, in case that a person is brought to administrative liability for not registering goods, imported to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the territory of the states- members of the Eurasian economic union provided by

Section 661. Original section/article: 275. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, such person shall not be brought to administrative liability, provided by part one of this Article.
Footnote.

Section 662. Original section/article: 287. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 127-VI dated 28.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 663. Original section/article: 288. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to perform the legal requirements of the state revenues bodies and their civil servants
Footnote. Title of

Section 664. Original section/article: 288. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Failure to perform the legal requirements of the state revenues bodies and their civil servants by a tax payer, shall –
entail a notification.
2. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
3. Illegal impeding to access of a civil servant of the state revenues bodies conducting tax inspection to the territory or to the premise used by a tax payer (except for resident premises) for entrepreneurial activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty five monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions (omission) provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 665. Original section/article: 288. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 17. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD OF
ENERGY SAVING AND INCREASE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY

Section 666. Original section/article: 289. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-observance of regulatory values of a capacity rate in electric networks and increase of energy consumption standards
1. Non-observance of regulatory values of a capacity rate in electric networks shall –
entail a notification for subjects of small entrepreneurship, fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Excess of energy consumption standards shall –
entail a notification on subjects of small entrepreneurship, a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of ten percent of the cost of energy resources, used in excess of the approved standards for the period when the offense occurred, but not more than one year.
3. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The act provided by a part two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty percent of a cost of energy resources used over the approved standards for the period in which the infraction is occurred, but no more than for one year.
Note. Cost of the energy resource shall be determined on the basis of market price as of the date of detection of the infraction.
Footnote.

Section 667. Original section/article: 289. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 668. Original section/article: 290. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligation on non-admission of direct loss of energy, water upon carrying out of their production and transfer
Footnote.

Section 669. Original section/article: 290. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 670. Original section/article: 291. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Acceptance of new objects for operation, consuming energy resources that are not equipped by the relevant metering devices of energy resources and automated systems of heat consumption regulation
Footnote.

Section 671. Original section/article: 291. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 672. Original section/article: 292. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation by subjects of the State energy register on providing information being introduced into the State energy register, the requirement on compulsory annual reduction of the consumption volume of energy resources and water per unit of production, floor place of the buildings, structures and constructions to the sizes determined according to energy audit
Footnote. Title of

Section 673. Original section/article: 292. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation of the obligation by subjects of the State energy register on providing information introduced into the State energy register, the requirement on compulsory annual reduction of the consumption size of energy resources and water per unit of production, floor space of the buildings, structures and constructions to the sizes determined according to energy audit, within five years after conduct of the energy audit, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 674. Original section/article: 292. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 675. Original section/article: 293. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence of a conclusion on energy saving and energy efficiency improvement of a subject of the State Energy Register 
Footnote. The title of

Section 676. Original section/article: 293. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Absence of a conclusion on energy saving and energy efficiency improvement of a subject of the State Energy Register -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 677. Original section/article: 293. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 678. Original section/article: 294. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of restrictions on sale and use of products in the field of energy saving and increase of energy efficiency
Footnote. Title of

Section 679. Original section/article: 294. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Use of incandescent electric lamps with a capacity of 25 W and more that may be used in alternating current circuit for the purpose of lighting, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of incandescent electric bulbs with a power of 25 W and above that can be used in alternating current circuits for lighting purposes.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of incandescent electric bulbs with a power of 25 W and above that can be used in alternating current circuits for lighting purposes.
3. Sale and (or) use of energy-consuming devices that do not contain in the technical documentation and on labels information on the class and characteristics of energy efficiency in accordance with the technical regulations of the Customs union or the Eurasian economic union, -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of six, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of six, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twelve, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 680. Original section/article: 294. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 10.29.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 681. Original section/article: 295. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligation on creation, introduction and organization of the work of energy management system by subjects of the State energy register
Footnote.

Section 682. Original section/article: 295. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Статья 296. Failure to comply with the procedure for energy audit established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on energy saving and increase of energy efficiency 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 683. Original section/article: 296. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Failure to comply with the procedure for energy audit established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on energy saving and increase of energy efficiency, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. An action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices, with exclusion of legal entities, carrying out activities in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency from the registry.
Footnote.

Section 684. Original section/article: 296. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 18. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD OF
INDUSTRY, USE OF HEATING, ELECTRIC AND NUCLEAR ENERGY

Section 685. Original section/article: 297. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations of safety requirements upon handling with explosive materials, radioactive and other environmentally hazardous substances
1. Violations of safety requirements during production, storage, disposal, destruction, use, utilization, transportation or another handling with explosive materials, pyrotechnical substances, radioactive, bacteriological, chemical and other environmentally hazardous substances and wastes in the branches of production and on the objects being under the control of a supervisory bodies, with the exception of cases provided by

Section 686. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of established rules of production, storage, disposal, use, utilization, transportation or another handling with nuclear materials, radioactive substances, special non-nuclear materials and products of double-purpose having a relation to nuclear activity, with the exception of the cases provided by

Section 687. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 688. Original section/article: 297-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of precious metals, precious stones, raw materials, containing precious metals, jewelry and other products made of precious metals and precious stones
1. Import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of precious metals, precious stones, raw materials, containing precious metals, jewelry and other products made of precious metals and precious stones with violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium- entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and eighty, on subjects of medium- entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented by

Section 689. Original section/article: 297-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.01.2016 № 445-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 690. Original section/article: 298. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules on safety performance of works
1. Violation of established requirements for the safe conduct of work in branches of industry, mining and construction works or on the objects being under the control of the authorized body in the field of industrial safety and other state control and supervision bodies, if this did not result in negligence causing serious or moderate harm to human health, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of requirements of industrial safety during development of the projects of construction, reconstruction, modernization, liquidation of hazardous production objects, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Concealing of a fact of accident, incident on a hazardous production object, shall –
entails a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Action (omission) provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 691. Original section/article: 298. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 692. Original section/article: 299. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the performance of certified types of work in the field of industrial safety and safety of hydraulic structures 
Footnote. The title of

Section 693. Original section/article: 299. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the performance of certified types of work in the industrial safety and safety of hydraulic structures, committed in the form of:
1) issuance of expert reports, including those in the field of explosive works containing incomplete and (or) inaccurate information on conformance (non-conformance) of the subject of examination based on the results of the conducted examinations in the field of industrial safety;
2) excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) discrepancies between the training and retraining of managers, specialists and staff at hazardous industrial facilities and industrial safety requirements;
4) the maintenance of gas-consuming and gas distribution systems, and liquefied petroleum gas supply facilities, which does not ensure that they remain in good working order;
5) issuance of expert opinions, development of declarations of safety of hydraulic structures containing incomplete and (or) inaccurate information on their compliance (non-compliance) with the requirements established by the water legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) the installation, maintenance, technical diagnosis, technical inspection and repair of lifts, escalators, moving walkways and lifts for people with disabilities, in breach of health and safety requirements;
7) failure to implement, or implementation of only part of, mountain rescue, gas rescue and blowout prevention operations at hazardous industrial facilities –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the validity term of attestation or without such.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, and equally non-elimination of the violations provided by a part one of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of the attestation.
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 694. Original section/article: 299. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of November 17, 2025 (shall be effective on January 1, 2026).

Section 695. Original section/article: 300. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of approved rules for the installation of electrical installations, technical operation of electrical stations and networks, safety precautions during the operation of thermal-mechanical equipment of power stations and heating networks, technical operation of electrical installations of consumers, safety precautions during the operation of electrical installations, safety precautions during the operation of electrical installations of consumers, as well as violation of established energy consumption modes 
1. Violation of approved rules for the installation of electrical installations, technical operation of electrical stations and networks, safety precautions during the operation of thermal-mechanical equipment of power stations and heating networks, technical operation of electrical installations of consumers, safety precautions during the operation of electrical installations, safety precautions during the operation of electrical installations of consumers, which has led to a condition threatening an accident, environmental pollution, fire, or a danger to the life of service personnel, as well as violation of established energy consumption modes, which has led to restrictions and (or) disconnection of other energy consumers, -
entails a fine on officials or top managers of energy-producing, energy-transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2.The actions provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine on officials or top managers of energy-producing, energy-transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the rules for the technical operation of electric power plants and networks in terms of general management of the technical condition of equipment, buildings and structures, the performance of volumes of repair work that ensure the stability of established operating indicators, the completeness of the preparatory work, the timely provision of the planned volumes of repair work with spare parts and materials, as well as for the timing and quality of the repair work performed, as well as in terms of general management of work on safety engineering -
shall entail a fine on officials or top managers of energy-producing, energy-transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided for in part three of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine on officials or top managers of energy producing, energy transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 696. Original section/article: 300. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 697. Original section/article: 300-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excess of the approved normative values of reliability indicators of power supply by energy transmitting organizations
Excess of the normative values of reliability indicators of power supply by an energy transmitting organization shall –
entail a fine on an official of an energy transmitting organization in amount of one hundred and twenty-five monthly calculation indices.
Note. An official of an energy transmitting organization in this Article shall be understood as the first head of an energy transmitting organization or a person, performing his/her duties.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented by

Section 698. Original section/article: 300-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 699. Original section/article: 300-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with approved fuel reserve standards by energy producing organizations and heat producing entities in the autumn-winter period 
1. Failure to comply with approved fuel reserve standards by energy producing organizations and heat producing entities in the autumn-winter period -
shall entail a fine for small business entities in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to comply with approved fuel reserve standards by energy producing organizations and heat producing entities, resulting in the shutdown of the main equipment of the power plant and boiler house -
shall entail a fine for small business entities in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one thousand, for large business entities - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The law is supplemented by

Section 700. Original section/article: 300-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 701. Original section/article: 301. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the deadline for obtaining a readiness passport 
1. Violation by energy producing, energy transmitting organizations, heat supply entities of the deadline for obtaining a readiness passport for work in the autumn-winter period -
entails a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for small business entities - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
entails a fine for officials in the amount of one hundred, for small business entities - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one thousand, for large business entities - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Note. In this article, an official of an energy-producing, energy-transmitting organization and a heat supply entity shall be understood to mean the first manager of an energy-producing, energy-transmitting organization and a heat supply entity or the person performing his/her duties.
Footnote.

Section 702. Original section/article: 301. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 703. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements for the issuance of technical conditions on connection to electric and heat networks
1. Violation of the requirements for the procedure and terms of the issuance of technical conditions on connection to electric and heat networks shall -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Refusal to accept documents and (or) issue technical conditions for connection to electric and heat networks shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented with

Section 704. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 89-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 705. Original section/article: 301-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements for providing information on technological infringements
1. Untimely or inaccurate provision of information by energy producing, energy transmitting organizations and heat supply entities on technological violations that have occurred -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Concealment of information by energy producing, energy transmitting organizations and heat supply entities on technological violations that have occurred -
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented with

Section 706. Original section/article: 301-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 89-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 707. Original section/article: 301-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for organizing the maintenance and repair of equipment, buildings and structures of power plants, sources of thermal energy, heat and electrical networks 
1. Violation of the rules for organizing the maintenance and repair of equipment, buildings and structures of power plants, sources of thermal energy, heat and electrical networks in terms of approving a long-term plan for the repair of equipment, buildings and structures of power plants, heat and electrical networks by energy producing, energy transmitting organizations, and heat supply entities -
entails a fine for officials or top managers of the energy producing, energy transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the rules for organizing the maintenance and repair of equipment, buildings and structures of power plants, heat sources, heat and electrical networks in terms of compliance with the deadlines and types of repairs, including uncoordinated postponement of the deadlines for repairs of the main equipment of power plants, heat sources, power transmission lines, substations and heat networks, -
entails a fine for officials or top managers of energy-producing, energy-transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. The action provided for in part two of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
entails a fine for officials or top managers of energy-producing, energy-transmitting organizations and the heat supply entity in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The law has been supplemented by

Section 708. Original section/article: 301-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 709. Original section/article: 302. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage to electrical networks 
1. Damage to electrical networks with voltage up to 1000 volts (overhead power lines, underground and underwater cable lines, transformer and converter substations, distribution devices and switching points) -
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of two hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Damage to electrical networks with voltage exceeding 1000 volts (overhead power lines, underground and underwater cable lines, transformer and converter substations, distribution devices and switching points) – 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of seventy-five, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3.The action provided for in part one of this article, which caused a break in the supply of electricity to consumers and caused damage, and also committed repeatedly within a year, -
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
4. The action provided for in part two of this article, which caused a break in the supply of electricity to consumers and caused damage, and also committed repeatedly within a year, -
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of five hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one thousand, for large business entities - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 710. Original section/article: 302. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 711. Original section/article: 303. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of supporting use of renewable energy sources
1. Non-fulfillment and (or) improper fulfillment of the obligation established by the legislative ac of the Republic of Kazakhstan on supporting use of renewable energy sources to purchase electric, heating energy produced by energy producing organizations using renewable energy sources, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of supporting use of renewable energy sources committed in the form of violation of the procedure and terms for determination of the nearest point of connection to electric or heating networks and connection of the objects on use of renewable energy sources, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Acts provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.

Section 712. Original section/article: 304. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of heating networks
Damage of heating networks (pipelines and their constructions, channels, heating cameras, pumping stations), if this act did not entail harm to human health and environment, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 713. Original section/article: 305. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Performance of works in protective zones of electric and heating network lines, objects of gas supply systems
Production of construction, erection, earthwork, loading and unloading works, prospecting works related to the arrangement of wells and pits, arrangement of sites, parking of motor vehicles, placement of markets, buildings, structures, storage of materials, construction of barriers and fences, discharge and drain of caustic corrosives substances and fuel and lubrication materials in protective zones of electric and heating network lines, objects of gas supply systems without coordination with the organization, the jurisdiction of which includes electric or heating networks or objects of the gas supply systems, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 714. Original section/article: 305. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 89-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 715. Original section/article: 306. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements on use of gas, safety operation of the objects of gas supply systems
1. Violation of requirements on safety operation of has consuming systems and gas equipment of domestic and household consumers established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gas and gas supply, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seven, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Unwarranted resumption of supplying commercial or liquefied petroleum gas to the gas consuming system, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of requirements on safety operation of the objects of gas supply systems, with the exception of has consuming systems and gas equipment of domestic and household consumers established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Action provided by a part four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 716. Original section/article: 307. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to take measures for ensuring of the preparation of a reserve fuel facility
Failure to take measures for ensuring of the preparation to work provided for industrial and (or) household consumers of a reserve fuel facility or failure to prepare gas consuming systems of industrial and (or) household consumers to work on established reserve fuel types, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 717. Original section/article: 308. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of oil pipelines, gas pipelines and their equipment
Footnote. Title of

Section 718. Original section/article: 308. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Damage of oil pipelines and gas pipelines and their equipment or illegal installation, movement, connection of devices to the network, as well as other violations of the rules of their operation, which could be the cause of an accident, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminal offense,-
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 719. Original section/article: 308. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 127-VI dated 28.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 720. Original section/article: 309. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of territories upon performance of construction and repair works
Excavation of yards and squares without the relevant permission, blocking by construction materials, failure to take measures for cleaning the places of excavations, as well as construction sites after completing the construction and repair, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 721. Original section/article: 309-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unauthorized connection to electrical networks 
1. Unauthorized connection to electrical networks -
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of two hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of four hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented by

Section 722. Original section/article: 309-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law dated 18.07.2024 № 127-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 723. Original section/article: 309-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unauthorized connection to heating networks of the centralized heat supply system and (or) local heat supply system 
1. Unauthorized connection to heating networks of the centralized heat supply system and (or) local heat supply system -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of two hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented by

Section 724. Original section/article: 309-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 19. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD
OF SPACE ACTIVITY

Section 725. Original section/article: 310. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of space activity
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of space activity, committed in the form of:
1) realization of a project in the field of space activity, for which there is no favourable conclusion of industry examination in the field of the space activity;
2) launch of a space object from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as beyond its boundaries in case of its carrying out by a participant of the space activity from Kazakhstan without the favourable decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on launch of the space object;
3) avoidance from the state registration of the space object;
4) creation of a direct threatening to human life and health;
5) use of the space technology and (or) stellar bodies for negative impact on the environment;
6) violation of international rules and standards on the space pollution, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on civil servants – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred seventy five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term for the right to carry out the activity in the scope of using space for six months or without such.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail deprivation of the license.

Section 726. Original section/article: 311. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for creation and operation (application) of space systems in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally in the space
1. Violation of the rules for creation and operation (application) of space systems in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in the space, expressed in operation of the space system, the results of which led to excess of the maximum allowed values of exposure of hazardous and harmful factors of industrial activity on operating personnel, population, space system, relating objects, environment and near-Earth space, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term for the right to carry out the activity in the scope of using space for six months or without such.
2. Non-elimination of the violations that entailed bringing to administrative infraction provided by a part one of this Article, upon expiry of the term for suspension of the license validity term for the right to carry out the activity in the scope of using space, shall –
entail deprivation of the license.
Chapter 20. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE SCOPES
OF ARCHITECTURAL, TOWN PLANNING, BUILDING ACTIVITY
AND HOUSING RELATIONS
Footnote. Title of Chapter 20 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 727. Original section/article: 312. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Performance of pre-project, survey, project, construction and assembling works with violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and state regulations in the field of architectural, urban planning and construction activities, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 728. Original section/article: 312. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Performance of pre-project, survey, project, construction and assembling works with violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and state regulations for architectural, urban planning and construction activities, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of one hundred and twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of four hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eight hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand four hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
Footnote.

Section 729. Original section/article: 312. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12. 2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 730. Original section/article: 313. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the approved construction standards and project documents upon performance of construction and assembling and repair and restoration works, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 731. Original section/article: 313. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Violation of requirements of the approved construction standards and project documents upon performance of construction and assembling and repair and restoration works, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, that entailed degradation of operating qualities, strength reduction, sustainability of buildings, structures, their parts, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the licence validity term.
2. Commission of actions mentioned in a part one of this Article that entailed loss of strength, sustainability of buildings, structures, their parts or separate construction elements, shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eight hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand four hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a license.
Footnote.

Section 732. Original section/article: 313. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 733. Original section/article: 314. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Performance of construction, construction and assembling, repair and restoration works upon erection and objects reconstruction without the project documentation approved in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 734. Original section/article: 314. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Performance of construction, construction and assembling, repair and restoration works upon erection and objects reconstruction without the project documentation approved in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices with suspension of performed works.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of eighty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eight hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand two hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of the license and suspension of performed works.
Footnote.

Section 735. Original section/article: 314. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 736. Original section/article: 315. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for preparing executive technical documentation provided by regulatory documents upon performance of construction and assembling, repair and restoration works on erection and reconstruction of objects, production of construction materials, products and structures, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 737. Original section/article: 315. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
Violation of the rules for preparing executive technical documentation provided by regulatory documents upon performance of construction and assembling, repair and restoration works on erection and reconstruction of objects, production of construction materials, products and structures, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a notification or fine on civil servants in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 738. Original section/article: 315. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 739. Original section/article: 316. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Construction (reconstruction, restoration, extension, technical re-equipment, modernization, capital repair) of objects and their complexes without project (design and estimate) documentation or according to project (design and estimate) documentation that did not undergo examination in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 740. Original section/article: 316. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Construction (reconstruction, restoration, extension, technical re-equipment, modernization, capital repair) of objects and their complexes without project (design and estimate) documentation or according to project (design and estimate) documentation that did not undergo examination in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred twenty, on civil servants – in amount of one hundred sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, and equally non-elimination of a violation provided by a part one of this Article that entailed bringing to administrative liability, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred sixty, on civil servants – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 741. Original section/article: 316. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 742. Original section/article: 317. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon performance of expert works and engineering services
1. Admission of non-conformance of performed (performing) construction and assembling works to approved project decisions by persons carrying out designer supervision, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices with suspension of the certificate of an expert for the right to maintain the author's supervision for a period of six months.
2. Issuance of a positive conclusion of expertise (expert evaluation) on the project (design and estimate) documentation, which does not meet the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) does not ensure the stability, reliability and strength of the constructed or erected objects, by persons responsible for project expertise, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices with suspension of the certificate of an expert for the right to carry out the expertise of projects for a period of six months.
3. Admission of violations by the persons carrying out technical supervision at the stage of realization of the project including the quality, terms, acceptance of performed works and putting of the object into operation, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices with suspension of a certificate of an expert for the right to maintain technical supervision for a period of six months.
3-1. Issuance by the persons, carrying out technical inspection of reliability and stability of buildings and structures, the conclusion made in violation of the requirements of the approved building standards and containing unreliable data, which may entail a deterioration in the performance, reduction in strength, stability of buildings, structures, their parts or individual structural elements, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices with suspension of a certificate of an expert for the right to carry out technical survey of reliability and stability of buildings and structures for a period of six months.
4. The actions (inaction) provided by parts 1, 2, 3 and 3-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with deprivation of a certificate of an expert for the relevant type of service and specialization and with prohibition of activities for the right to carry out expert works and engineering services for a period of three years.
Footnote.

Section 743. Original section/article: 317. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 744. Original section/article: 317-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in implementation of engineering services (technical supervision and project management) and expert works (project expertise and technical inspection of reliability and stability of buildings and structures) by accredited legal entities
1. Implementation of engineering services (technical supervision and project management) and expert works (project expertise and technical inspection of reliability and stability of buildings and structures) by accredited legal entities, having certified experts, with violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other normative and normative legal acts in the field of architecture, town planning and construction, including:
1) inconsistency of the performed (performing) construction and installation works to the approved design decisions;
2) issuance of a positive expert conclusion (expert evaluation) on the design (design and estimate) documentation that does not ensure stability, reliability and durability of erecting or erected objects;
3) violation at the stage of project implementation, including quality, terms, acceptance of completed work and delivering the facility into operation;
4) issuing conclusions on technical inspection of reliability and stability of buildings and structures, performed with violation of requirements of the approved building codes and containing unreliable data, which may lead to deterioration of operational qualities, reduction in strength, stability of buildings, structures, parts or individual structural elements;
5) non-compliance with the qualification requirements for accredited legal entities shall -
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall-
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of a certificate of accreditation.
Footnote. Chapter 20 is supplemented with

Section 745. Original section/article: 317-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication).

Section 746. Original section/article: 317-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Certification of engineering and technical workers, participating in the design and construction process, with violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other normative and normative legal acts in the field of architecture, town planning and construction
1. Attestation of engineering and technical workers, participating in the design and construction process, with violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other normative and normative legal acts in the field of architecture, town planning and construction shall -
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices with deprivation of a certificate of accreditation.
Footnote. Chapter 20 is supplemented by

Section 747. Original section/article: 317-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication).

Section 748. Original section/article: 318. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of established order of acceptance and putting of objects and complexes into operation, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 749. Original section/article: 318. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
Violation of established order of acceptance and putting of objects and complexes into operation with violations of requirements of the state standards in the scope of architectural and construction activity, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on individuals, civil servants in amount of fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 750. Original section/article: 318. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 751. Original section/article: 319. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal construction 
Illegal construction of industrial, residential, economic, hydrotechnical (hydroeconomic) or domestic objects without the relevant right to land, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with compulsory demolition of the built structure or structure under construction on a legal basis or without such.

Section 752. Original section/article: 320. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan on share participation in housing construction and housing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Failure by a developer, an authorised company or an engineering company to observe the requirements of the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan on shared participation in housing construction, including those relating to the content of information subject to disclosure and the procedure for its dissemination, or the dissemination by a developer, an authorised company or an engineering company of inaccurate, incomplete or misleading information, save in the cases specified in parts 2 and 2-1 of this article, –
shall result in a fine of three hundred monthly calculation indices being imposed on legal persons.
2. Non- presentation of information and reporting, provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or presentation of unreliable information and reporting by a tenant builder, an authorized company, as well as unreliable or incomplete report on the results of monitoring the construction of a residential house by an engineering company to the local executive authority of the city of republican significance, the capital, district, city of regional significance shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Raising funds from natural persons, legal entities and/or persons operating under a joint venture agreement (general partnership, consortium), without obtaining a permit to raise funds from co-investors or a guarantee from the Single Housing Construction Operator as required by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on co-investment in housing construction – shall result in a fine of seven hundred and fifty for small business entities, and one thousand for medium-sized business entities, for large enterprises – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
2-2. The production, distribution and/or placement of advertisements for multi-unit residential buildings and/or complexes of detached houses under construction, aimed at raising funds from natural persons, legal entities and/or persons operating under a joint activity agreement (general partnership, consortium), without the relevant authorisation to raise funds from co-investors or an agreement guaranteeing co-investment in housing construction, stipulated by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Co-Investment in Housing Construction”, as well as those that do not conform to the classification of residential buildings (residential structures) in the approved construction project – shall result in a fine of two hundred for natural persons, for small business entities – five hundred, for medium-sized business entities – seven hundred and fifty, and for large business entities – one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Actions (inaction) provided by parts one and two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, as well as non-elimination of violations provided by parts one and two of this Article, which led to an administrative liability, shall - 
entail suspension of permission validity term to attract money of shareholders for a period up to three months.
4. Violation by the chairman of the association of owners of property of an apartment residential building, entities managing a condominium facility when choosing by the owners of apartments, non-residential premises the form of management of a condominium facility in the form of direct joint management of the deadlines for opening a current account for the management of a condominium facility and (or) a savings account for accumulating money for capital repairs of the common property of a condominium facility in second-tier banks in cases stipulated by the housing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Violation by the chairman of the association of owners of property of an apartment building, entities managing a condominium facility of the deadlines for submitting monthly and annual reports on the management of a condominium facility, as provided for by the housing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Actions (inaction) provided in parts four and five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposing an administrative penalty, shall -
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. Violation by the customer (developer) carrying out construction or reconstruction of an apartment building of the deadlines for submitting documents on paper and (or) electronic media under the acceptance certificate after the owners of apartments, non-residential premises have chosen the form of management of the condominium facility or the subject of management of the condominium facility when the owners of apartments, non-residential premises have chosen the form of management of the condominium facility in the form of direct joint management or housing inspection, as provided for by the housing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred twenty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one hundred fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Violation by the chairman of the association of owners of property of an apartment residential building, the subject of management of the condominium object when choosing by the owners of apartments, non-residential premises the form of management of the condominium object in the form of direct joint management of the deadlines for submitting under the act of acceptance and transfer of documentation and other technical means and equipment when changing the forms of management of the condominium object or the subject of management of the condominium object or terminating its activities in managing the condominium object, as provided for by the housing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as refusal to sign the act of acceptance and transfer 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, and for legal entities - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. An action (inaction) provided for in part seven of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of two hundred, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and forty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of three hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Actions (inactions) provided for in part eight of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, and for legal entities - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Failure by the chair of the owners’ association of a multi-unit residential building, or the entity managing the condominium, to take measures to prepare the utility networks and equipment for the heating season shall result in a fine of fifty monthly calculation indices.
12. Any action (or failure to act) as described in part eleven of this article, committed again within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall result in a fine of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. The amount of the fine imposed for the violations provided for in parts four, five, six, eight and ten of this article may not be paid from money in the current account for crediting funds for the management of the condominium property, or from the savings account intended for the accumulation of funds for the capital repair of the common property of the condominium property. 
Footnote.

Section 753. Original section/article: 320. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2019 № 284-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.07.2025 № 209-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 754. Original section/article: 321. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Construction without technical and (or) author's supervision, excluding requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 755. Original section/article: 321. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
Construction without technical and (or) author's supervision, excluding requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on officials in amount of one hundred and sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote.

Section 756. Original section/article: 321. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 757. Original section/article: 322. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal re-equipment and replanning of premises, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 758. Original section/article: 322. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Illegal re-equipment and replanning of residential and non-residential premises in existing buildings without architectural and construction project and relevant decision of structural subdivisions of local executive agencies, carrying out functions in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of ninety, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions that caused or could cause a complete loss of strength and stability (destruction) of the building, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eighty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of one hundred and eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note.
1. The administrative infraction in the field of construction shall be regarded as non-compliance with compulsory requirements, construction standards and rules, with the exception of technical regulations, projects, other regulatory acts upon town-planning development of territories, designing, construction, reconstruction, restoration, modernization, capital repair and capital improvement of the objects and complexes entailing reduction and loss of strength, sustainability, reliability of buildings, structures, constructions, their parts or separate structural elements, degradation of operating characteristics of the objects under construction, negative impact on environment, as well as the actions violating the established legal organizational order of construction of the objects and their acceptance for operation.
2. The strength shall be regarded as capability of a material, structure, product, their interface nodes, foundation soil of a building and construction to resist the calculated values of loads and forces without being destroyed.
3. Sustainability shall be regarded as capability of a building, construction to preserve a status of stable balance under the influence of calculated forces and loads.
4. The reliability shall be regarded as capability of a building, construction, its engineering systems, load carrying and cladding structures to perform the functions determined by the values of regulated properties.
5. The project works shall be regarded as the works on pre-project (justification of investments in construction, feasibility study) and project (project, working project and other types of projects) documentation for construction, extension, reconstruction, technical re-equipping, capital repair and other types of works of buildings and structures.
Footnote.

Section 759. Original section/article: 322. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 760. Original section/article: 323. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Operation of objects and complexes that shall not put into operation in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 761. Original section/article: 323. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
Operation (residence, rendering of services, production of products for the purpose of acquisition of incomes) of the objects, complexes or their separate parts being completed in construction but that shall not put into operation in established manner, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine n individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 762. Original section/article: 323. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 763. Original section/article: 323-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on architectural, urban planning and construction activity, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 764. Original section/article: 323. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Non-performance or inadequate performance by local executive agencies on architecture matters, urban planning and construction, as well as state architectural and construction control of the requirements imposed on them by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, affecting urban planning and architectural and construction documentation, construction activities, including quality of construction, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, -
entail a fine on officials in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 20 is supplemented by

Section 765. Original section/article: 323-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 29.05.2020 № 337-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 21. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION IN THE FIELD OF
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES

Section 766. Original section/article: 324. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of sanitary epidemiological and environmental requirements on environmental protection
1. Violation of the standards of sanitary and epidemiological, and environmental requirements, as well as hygienic standards on protection of environment, with the exception of the cases provided by

Section 767. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail entail notification or a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on officials, small business entities – in the amount of fifteen, on medium business entities – in the amount of twenty, on large business entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Giving of instructions or permissions by civil servants for overstating or understating established standards of sanitary epidemiological and environmental requirements on environmental protection, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 768. Original section/article: 324. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 769. Original section/article: 325. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of conducting industrial environmental control
Violation of requirements of industrial environmental control, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 770. Original section/article: 326. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of conditions of an environmental permit
1. Non-fulfillment of conditions of an environmental permit shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided for by part one of this Article in relation to one and the same conditions of the environmental permit committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large entrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices. 
3. Actions provided for by part one of this Article, linked with infliction of a damage to environement, shall –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with or without suspension of the validity term of the environmental permit.
4. Non-elimination of violations for which the validity of an environmental permit has been suspended by individuals and legal entities within the established period, shall –
Entail deprivation of an environmental permit.
Notes:
1. Liability for violation of the conditions of an environmental permit, provided for by this article, shall occur in cases where administrative liability is not provided for a separate violation of the conditions of an environmental permit in accordance with other Articles of this chapter.
2. In case if an environmental permit has been issued for several sites, the validity of the environmental permit suspended in accordance with part three of this Article shall be terminated for the object for which the violation has not been eliminated.
Footnote.

Section 771. Original section/article: 326. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 772. Original section/article: 327. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-notification on industrial release and emission of polluting substances above permitted standards, disposal of wastes
Footnote.

Section 773. Original section/article: 327. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 774. Original section/article: 327-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements for the submission of mandatory information provided for by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Failure to submit, submission of incomplete or untimely submission of mandatory information provided for by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty-five, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction or linked with production limit-exceeding emissions of pollutants into the environment, exceeding the limits of accumulation or disposal of waste and other negative impacts on the environment, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Submission of unreliabile mandatory information, provided for by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. An action provided for by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction либо linked with the violation of the environmental permit or failure to perform mandatory activities on environmental protection, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of six hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of eight hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 21 was supplemented with

Section 775. Original section/article: 327-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 776. Original section/article: 327-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Improper performance or non- performance of remediation (elimination) of environmental damage caused 
1. Improper remediation (elimination) of environmental damage caused, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices. 
2. Non-performance of remediation (elimination) of the caused environmental damage shall – 
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred percent from the amount of economic benefit received as a result of the violation, with the suspension of the relevant environmental permit or activity.
Footnote. Chapter 21 was supplemented with

Section 777. Original section/article: 327-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 778. Original section/article: 328. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the standards of permissible anthropogenic impact on the environment
1. Exceeding technological standards for emissions, technological standards for discharges, technological specific standards for emissions or standards for emissions into the environment, the implementation of emissions from sources not specified in the environmental permit, as well as the implementation of emissions without a newly issued environmental permit for an operating facility that has a negative impact on the environment, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, on legal entities – in the amount of ten thousand percent from the relevant rate of payment for the negative impact on the environment in relation to the excess amount of pollutants.
2. Actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly at one and the same emissions source within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, on legal entities – in the amount of twenty thousand percent from the relevant rate of payment for the negative impact on the environment in relation to the excess amount of pollutants.
3. Systematic (more than two times) during the year exceeding the technological emission standards, technological discharge standards, technological specific emission standards or emission standards into the environment, the implementation of emissions from sources not specified in the environmental permit, or exceeding the emission standards twice for more than three hours in a row, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, on legal entities – in the amount of twenty thousand percent from the relevant rate of payment for the negative impact on the environment in relation to the excess amount of pollutants, with the suspension of the environmental permit for the operation of the relevant emission source or production site.
4. The implementation of anthropogenic impact on the environment without an environmental permit, when its receipt was mandatory for a newly commissioned facility that has a negative impact on the environment, or without a mandatory declaration of environmental impact, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, on the subjects of medium and large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred percent of the amount of economic benefit received as a result of the violation, with the prohibition of activities for the period of up to three years.
5. Submission of an unreliable environmental impact statement, the unreliability of which is expressed by the excess of anthropogenic impact on the environment in comparison with the declared indicators of emissions, discharges of pollutants, the amount of waste accumulated and subject to disposal, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with or without of suspension of activities.
6. Violation of the limits for accumulation or disposal of waste shall –
entail a fine in the amount of ten thousand percent from the rate of payment for waste disposal in relation to the amount of waste accumulated or disposed of in excess of the established limit.
7. Action provided for by part six of this Article, совершенное repeatedly, at the same waste accumulation or disposal facility within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine in the amount of twenty thousand percent from the rate of payment for waste disposal in relation to the amount of waste accumulated or disposed of in excess of the established limit, with or without suspension of the environmental permit.
8. Violation of the time limits for accumulation of waste shall –
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred percent from the rate of payment for waste disposal in relation to the amount of accumulated waste for each day over the period established by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
9. Violation of limits for the placement of sulfur in the open on sulfur pads formed during operations for the exploration and (or) production of hydrocarbons, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of ten thousand percent from the rate of payment in relation to the mass of sulfur placed in the open in excess of the established limit.
10. Placement of sulfur in the open on sulfur pads formed during exploration and (or) production of hydrocarbons without an environmental permit shall –
entail a fine in the amount of twenty thousand percent from the rate of payment for the mass of sulfur placed in the open without an environmental permit.
11. Violation of the standards of permissible physical physical impacts on the environment shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Notes: 
1. For the purposes of parts one, two and three of this Article when determining the amount of an administrative penalty for emissions or discharges of pollutants for which the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan does not establish an appropriate fee rate, the fee rate shall be recognized in the amount of the sum equal to fifty monthly calculation indices for one ton of pollutant emissions or one thousand two hundred monthly calculation indices for one ton of pollutant discharges.
2. For the purposes of parts one and two of this Article the implementation of emissions without a newly issued environmental permit shall be understood to be the cases of emissions by an object that has a negative impact on the environment, for which the previously issued environmental permit has expired, revoked or terminated (including deprivation), but at the same time, a new mandatory environmental permit.
3. For the purposes of part four of this Article a newly commissioned facility that has a negative impact on the environment shall be understood to be a facility for the construction or operation of which has not previously been issued a mandatory environmental permit or a positive conclusion of the state environmental expertise.
4. For the purposes of parts one, two and three of this Article when calculating the penalty for pollutant emissions from the flaring of associated and (or) natural gas, the rates of payment for pollutant emissions from stationary sources established by clause 2 of

Section 779. Original section/article: 576. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code).
At the same time, for emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon oxides in flares, respectively, the rates of payment for emissions of sulfur oxides (SOₓ), nitrogen oxides (NOₓ), carbon monoxide, established by paragraph 2 of

Section 780. Original section/article: 576. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code) are applied. When calculating the fine for mercaptan emissions, the corresponding fee rate established by paragraph 3 of

Section 781. Original section/article: 576. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code) is applied.
Footnote.

Section 782. Original section/article: 328. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced from July 1, 2021).

Section 783. Original section/article: 329. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Exceeding of the established and additionally obtained volume of the quota for greenhouse gas emissions
Exceeding of the established and additionally obtained volume of the quota for greenhouse gas emissions shall –
entail a fine on the operator of installation in amount of five monthly calculation indices for each unit of the quota of over-established volume, not compensated by the acquired units of quotas and (or) carbon units obtained as a result of projects implementation, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 784. Original section/article: 329. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.04.2016 № 491-V(shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 785. Original section/article: 330. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Submission of unreliable data on validation and verification by independent accredited organizations, accredited bodies on validation and verification
Submission of unreliable data on validation and verification by independent accredited organizations, accredited bodies on validation and verification shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of validity of a certificate of accreditation or an accreditation certificate.
Footnote.

Section 786. Original section/article: 330. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.04.2016 № 491-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 787. Original section/article: 331. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements for the protection of atmospheric air and the protection of water bodies from pollution and clogging
1. Violation of the operating rules or use of faulty facilities or equipment for purification and (or) control of pollutant emissions into the atmospheric air and wastewater discharge shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of eighty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action, provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly in relation of one and the same facility, equipment or emission source within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of forty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of six hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-use of facilities or equipment for purification and (or) control of emissions of pollutants into the atmospheric air and discharge of sewage waters, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of four hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Action provided for by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly in relation to one and the same facility, equipment, source of emissions during the year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred percent from the amount of economic benefit received as a result of the violation, with or without suspension of the environmental permit in respect of the emission source or production site.
Footnote.

Section 788. Original section/article: 331. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 789. Original section/article: 332. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to perform requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory conduct of the state environmental expertise
1. Failure to perform requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory conduct of the state environmental expertise or financing of projects and programs that did not undergo the state environmental expertise, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to perform the requirements contained in the conclusion of the state environmental expertise, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 790. Original section/article: 332. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 791. Original section/article: 333. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release for operation of transport and other movable vehicles with excess of the normative levels of the content of polluting substances in emissions
1. Release for operation of automobiles, planes, vessels and other movable vehicles and units the content of polluting substances in emissions of which, as well as noise level made by them during working shall be in excess of established standards, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension or prohibition of the activity of without such.
Footnote.

Section 792. Original section/article: 333. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 793. Original section/article: 334. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Operation of engine and other movable vehicles with excess of the standards (technical standards) of the content of polluting substances in emissions
1. Operation of engine and other movable vehicles and units, the content of polluting substances in emissions of which, as well as noise pollution level made by them during working, are in excess of established standards (technical standards), shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for individuals and one hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on legal entities – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 794. Original section/article: 334. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 795. Original section/article: 335. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation on protection of atmospheric air
Footnote.

Section 796. Original section/article: 335. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 797. Original section/article: 336. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with requirements on protection of atmospheric air and fire security upon warehousing and burning of waste
Non-compliance with requirements on protection of atmospheric air and fire security upon warehousing and burning of waste shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on officials – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 798. Original section/article: 336. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 799. Original section/article: 337. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Land degradation
1. Destruction or illegal removal of a fertile layer of soil, including for the purpose of selling or transferring it to other persons, except for cases when such removal is necessary to prevent the irretrievable loss of a fertile layer of soil, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of forty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of seven hundred, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one thousand, for large businesses - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Pollution or other contamination of the land with agrochemicals, pesticides, fertilizers, plant growth stimulants and other hazardous biological and radioactive substances during their storage, use or transportation, as well as contamination by bacterial-parasitic or characteristic harmful organisms that have caused land degradation or deterioration of soil fertility without causing harm to human health, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of twenty – five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Pollution of the land with hazardous chemical substances, that did not entail the infliction of environmental damage, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials and subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
4. Pollution of the land with hazardous chemical substances, that entailed the infliction of environmental damage, if this action does not contain signs of a criminal infraction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on officials and subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of seven hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 800. Original section/article: 337. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 801. Original section/article: 338. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Irrational use or non-use of agricultural lands
Irrational use or non-use of agricultural lands, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 802. Original section/article: 339. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of obligations by owners of land fields and land users on use of the land fields
1. Non-fulfillment of obligations by owners of land fields and land users on use of the land fields expressed in:
1) use of the lands not in designated purposes, but on the lands of settlements - not in accordance with the functional area;
2) non-carrying out of the measures on land protection provided by the legislative act in the field of land relations;
3) failure to notify or untimely notification of the authorized body for land relations on the alienation of the right of land use on agricultural lands, –
entails a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of five, for small or non–profit business organizations – in the amount of ten, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twenty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 803. Original section/article: 339. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 804. Original section/article: 340. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of obligations on bringing the temporary occupied lands to condition being suitable for the further use in designated purposes
Non-fulfillment of obligations on bringing the temporary occupied lands to condition being suitable for the further use in designated purposes, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 805. Original section/article: 341. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealment of information on existence of the land fields for housing construction, the special land fund
Concealment of information on existence of the land fields for constructing individual residential houses, the special land fund, its distortion, unreasonable refusal in allocation of land fields, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants of local executive bodies in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 806. Original section/article: 342. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Distortion of details of the state registration,
accounting and appraisal of lands
Intended distortion of the details of the state registration, accounting and appraisal of lands, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 807. Original section/article: 342-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation in the field of state land cadaster
Violation in the field of state land cadastre related to:
1) formation of cadastral case of the land plot;
2) accounting the quality of land, including their economic assessment and monitoring of land, soil, geobotanical, agrochemical inspections and soil bonitation;
3) accounting the number of lands, land owners and land users, as well as other subjects of land relations for the purposes of state registration;
4) state cadastral assessment of lands including determination of cadastral (estimated) cost of land plots; drawing up schemes of borders of estimated zones in settlements with establishment of correction coefficients to base rates of payment for land plots; calculation of base rates of payment for land plots; determination of losses of agricultural production at withdrawal of agricultural lands for the purposes, not connected with agriculture;
5) accumulation, processing and maintenance of the Bank of data on land plots and their subjects, as well as other land cadastre information on paper and in electronic form;
6) management of automated information system of state land cadastre;
7) production and management of land-cadastral maps, including digital;
8) management of the land-cadastral book and unified state register of lands;
9) production and issue of identification documents for a land plot;
10) production of land-cadastral plan;
11) assignment of cadastral numbers to land plots;
12) production of passports of land plots, shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 21 is supplemented by

Section 808. Original section/article: 342-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 809. Original section/article: 343. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of geodesy, cartography and spatial data 
Footnote. The title of

Section 810. Original section/article: 343. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Implementation of geodetic and (or) cartographic works in the absence of:
1) own or rented set of authorized instruments, equipment and tools that allow you to perform geodetic and (or) cartographic work, or a contract for provision of services with persons who have a set of authorized instruments, equipment, tools with factory numbers;
2) in the staff of a specialist with higher or post–secondary education in the field of geodesy, cartography and spatial data -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and forty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty – five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of seventy, on subjects of medium- entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 811. Original section/article: 343. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 812. Original section/article: 343-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of meteorological monitoring
1. Carrying out work in the field of meteorological monitoring in violation of mandatory requirements in the form of:
1) failure to provide the received meteorological information in the prescribed manner to the National Hydrometeorological Service;
2) failure to notify or untimely notification of changes in certain data submitted when sending a notification for inclusion in the state register of producers of meteorological information, shall −
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of forty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred сорока monthly calculation indices.
2. Submission of deliberately false information when included in the state register of producers of meteorological information, shall –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of sixty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of seventy, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 21 was supplemented with

Section 813. Original section/article: 343-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 814. Original section/article: 344. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of environmental requirements to waste management
1. Violation of the prohibition on disposal of certain types of waste, provided for by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall – 
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred percent from the amount of economic benefit received as a result of the violation.
2. Storage of waste outside specially designated places not intended for their accumulation or disposal, as well as waste disposal without an environmental permit or waste not declared in the declaration on the environmental impact, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred percent, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred percent of the amount of economic benefit received as a result of violation. 
2-1. Formation of spontaneous dumps (waste dumping outside specially designated places) using vehicles for their delivery, excluding cases envisaged by

Section 815. Original section/article: 434-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices for individuals, two hundred for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, five hundred for medium-sized business entities and one thousand for large business entities.
3. Violation of environmental requirements for the accumulation, collection, transportation, accounting, recovery, removal and neutralization of waste, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of forty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of environmental requirements for waste management operations shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
4-1. An action envisaged by paragraph 2-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year, and by entities of large entrepreneurship - within three years after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for individuals, seven hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, one thousand monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities, and two thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities, with or without confiscation of vehicles and other items that were the instrumentalities of the offence.
5. Action provided for by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of the license for processing, neutralization, utilization and (or) destruction of hazardous waste.
Note. 
Liability for the infraction, provided for by part four of this Article, shall occur in cases when for a separate violation of requirements there is no administrative liability provided for waste management operations в in accordance with other parts of this Article.
Footnote.

Section 816. Original section/article: 344. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 817. Original section/article: 344-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements for the fulfillment of extended obligations of manufacturers (importers)
1. Violation of the requirements for the fulfillment of extended obligations of manufacturers (importers) –
will result in a warning.
2. Action (inaction) provided for in the first part of this article, committed again within a year after the imposition of administrative penalties, –
the penalty shall be imposed on individuals in the amount of ten, on small businesses – in the amount of thirty, on medium – sized businesses – in the amount of fifty, on large businesses-in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 21 is supplemented by

Section 818. Original section/article: 344-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 819. Original section/article: 344-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-performance or improper performance of expanded obligations of producers (importers) of duties and functions by an operator
Untimely or improper distribution of the expanded obligations of producers (importers) of the received money by an operator, non-performance or improper performance of expanded obligations of producers (importers) of duties and functions imposed on the operator shall - 
entail a fine on the first head of an operator of expanded obligations of producers (importers) in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 21 is supplemented by

Section 820. Original section/article: 344-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 821. Original section/article: 345. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for rational and integrated use of the subsoil during subsurface use operations under subsurface use contracts for hydrocarbons and uranium 
Violation of the rules for rational and integrated use of the subsoil during subsurface use operations under the subsurface use contracts for hydrocarbons and uranium, which led to a deterioration in the quality of the remaining reserves, unjustified extra-project and excessive mineral losses, –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 822. Original section/article: 345. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 823. Original section/article: 346. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conducting operations for exploration and (or) mining of solid minerals using types, techniques and methods of work not provided by project document 
Conducting operations for exploration and (or) mining of solid minerals using types, techniques and methods of work not provided by project document, as well as failure to notify the competent authority (state agency that is a party of the contract and (or) who issued the license for subsurface use) on introduction of amendments to project documents by the specified time – 
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 824. Original section/article: 346. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 825. Original section/article: 347. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of environmental requirements during subsoil use operations
1. Violation of environmental requirements during subsoil use operations, if this act did not cause environmental damage, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifteen, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of forty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 826. Original section/article: 347. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
– as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 827. Original section/article: 348. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Performance of work for hydrocarbon production without state examination of mineral reserves 
Performance of work for hydrocarbon production without state examination of mineral reserves –
shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 828. Original section/article: 348. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 829. Original section/article: 349. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for presentation reporting in the field of subsurface use 
Violation of the procedure and terms for presentation of reporting by the subsurface user provided by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On subsoil and subsurface use", –
shall entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 830. Original section/article: 349. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 831. Original section/article: 350. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to true recording for mined solid minerals, hydrocarbons 
Failure to true recording for mined solid minerals, hydrocarbons –
shall entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 832. Original section/article: 350. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 833. Original section/article: 351. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of accounting, utilization and deactivation of wastes of production and consumption
Footnote.

Section 834. Original section/article: 351. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 835. Original section/article: 352. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements on bringing of mine working and bore wells to the condition ensuring their reservation and safety of population
Loss of surveying documentation, violation of requirements on bringing of the liquidated or conserved mine workings and bore wells to the condition ensuring safety of population, as well as requirements on reservation of the mine workings and bore wells for the period of conservation, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 836. Original section/article: 353. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for liquidation and conservation of the objects of subsoil use
1. Failure to comply with the obligation for remediation of consequences of carrying out operations on subsoil use within the terms established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsoil use, shall – 
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizationsin the amount of thirty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Carrying out operations for the exploration and production of solid minerals, the extraction of common minerals, the use of subsoil space and mining, the elimination of the consequences of which is not provided in accordance with the requirements of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On subsoil and subsoil use", shall –
entail the suspension of activities at the relevant subsoil site or sites for the period of three months.
3. Non-elimination by the subsoil user of the violation of the requirement provided for in part two of this Article during the period of suspension of activities in the relevant subsoil plot or plots shall –
entail prohibition of activities (subsoil use operations) at the relevan subsoil site or sites.
Footnote.

Section 837. Original section/article: 353. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 838. Original section/article: 354. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal or avoidance of presentation the information on use of subsoil, geological information to the state control agencies 
Refusal or avoidance of presentation of timely, complete and reliable information on use of subsoil, mined minerals, as well as geological information to the state control agencies–
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of six, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 839. Original section/article: 354. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 840. Original section/article: 355. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Giving of instructions or permissions by civil servants entailing breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsoil use
Giving of instructions or permissions by civil servants entailing breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsoil use, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 841. Original section/article: 356. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for operations on subsurface use 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 842. Original section/article: 356. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Violation of the rules for operations on subsurface use –
hall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of sixty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to perform the environmental requirements during subsoil use –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of sixty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the conditions for conducting operations on subsurface use for hydrocarbons, provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsurface use, as well as violation of the requirements of project documents for hydrocarbon exploration and production, – 
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
4. Conduct of prospecting, appraisal works and works on extraction without the project documents for subsurface use approved in the established manner –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. Burning of raw gas without permission or without compliance with conditions of permission of the authorized agency for hydrocarbons, with the exception of cases provided by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On subsoil and subsurface use", –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
6. performance of works on raw hydrocarbon extraction without utilization and (or) processing of raw gas by subsurface user –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
7. Deviation from the project documentation approved in the established manner upon construction of necessary field facilities and other infrastructure facilities required for extraction, preparation, storage and transportation of the hydrocarbons from the place of extraction and storage to the place of transshipment to the main pipelines and (or) by other type of transport, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
8. Operation of wells with violation of requirements established by the legislation, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
9. Conduct of operations for exploration and (or) extraction of hydrocarbons at sea without permission, with the exception of cases provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On subsoil and subsurface use” or without compliance with the conditions of permission of the authorized agency for hydrocarbons –
shall entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
10. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication). 
11. Absence of the approved plan of organizing works on prevention and liquidation of oil spills of the subsurface user conducting the operations for exploration and (or) extraction of hydrocarbons at sea, individual or legal entity carrying out the activity at sea linked with the oil spill risk at the sea –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
12. Conduct of operations for exploration and (or) extraction of hydrocarbons at sea without own materials and equipment required for liquidation of the consequences of oil spills at sea of the first and second levels, or concluded contract with the specialized organization –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
13. The act provided by a part eight of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
14. Acts provided by parts four, five, six and nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail suspension or prohibition of the activity or separate types of activity.
Footnote.

Section 843. Original section/article: 356. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 844. Original section/article: 357. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Registration of illegal transactions on environmental management
Registration of knowingly illegal transactions on nature management, distortion of data of state accounting and state cadastres of natural resources, as well as deliberate understatement of payment for the use of natural resources, environmental pollution, protection and reproduction of natural resources made from mercenary or other personal interest by an official with the use of official position if these actions do not contain any signs of criminally punished act, shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 845. Original section/article: 357. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 846. Original section/article: 358. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements for the protection of water bodies and the water resources contained therein from pollution, contamination and depletion, as well as failure to take measures to prevent the harmful effects of waters 
Footnote. The title of

Section 847. Original section/article: 358. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation of requirements for commissioning facilities that adversely affect the condition of water bodies – 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and forty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and eighty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of four hundred and ninety, for large business entities - in the amount of nine hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to carry out measures defined by the water legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure the water bodies protection from pollution, clogging and depletion, failure to carry out sanitation of surface water bodies, failure to implement the plan of measures to reduce the water losses volume, a phased (no more than five years) transition to recycling and (or) repeated water supply systems, introduction of the best available technologies, as well as failure to take measures to create engineering systems for the protection of populated areas, industrial facilities, agricultural lands, transport infrastructure facilities, hazardous industrial facilities from flood and melt water and (or) their drainage, and (or) redistribution for replenishment of reservoirs, lake systems and groundwater deposits, failure to carry out afforestation of floodplain areas of surface water bodies – 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and forty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and thirty-eight, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of seven hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of nine hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 848. Original section/article: 358. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 849. Original section/article: 359. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage to water management and hydraulic engineering structures, devices, means of measuring the volume of withdrawn and discharged water resources and fire-fighting water supply systems, violation of their operation rules 
Footnote. The title of

Section 850. Original section/article: 359. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Damage to water management and hydraulic engineering structures, devices, means of measuring the volume of withdrawn and discharged water resources, fire-fighting water supply systems, as well as breaking seals on metering devices -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of two hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the rules for the operation of water management and hydraulic engineering structures, fire-fighting water supply systems -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of two hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 851. Original section/article: 359. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 852. Original section/article: 359-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of safe operation of water management and hydraulic engineering structures
1. Failure to conduct or improper conduct of an inspection of the technical condition of water management and hydraulic engineering structures, including engineering and technical support facilities, also delay in conducting it- shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to conduct or improper conduct of a multifactor survey of hydraulic engineering structures, posing a high risk in case of natural and man-made emergency situations, as well as violation of the terms of its conduct - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
3. Operation of hydraulic engineering structures without a declaration of safety of hydraulic structures -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of five hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of seven hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided for in parts one, two and three of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of two hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of five hundred and fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of seven hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The Code has been supplemented with

Section 853. Original section/article: 359-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 854. Original section/article: 360. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal business activities on water bodies, in water protection zones and strips
Footnote. The title of

Section 855. Original section/article: 360. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Unlawful construction of buildings, structures and other objects on surface water bodies, in water protection zones and strips, illegal change of boundaries of a water body -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and twenty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and seventy, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of four hundred and twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices, with forced demolition of the illegally erected or constructed structure.
2. Illegal drilling of wells for the intake of groundwater and construction of groundwater intake structures -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of sixty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred and forty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of three hundred and thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of nine hundred monthly calculation indices. 
3. Breach of approval conditions of draft documents for the performance of work related to construction activities, afforestation, subsoil use operations, well drilling, rehabilitation of surface water bodies, fisheries melioration, agricultural and other work on water bodies, in water protection zones and strips, - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 856. Original section/article: 360. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 857. Original section/article: 361. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for maintenance of a primary accounting of waters and their use
Violation of rules for maintenance of a primary accounting of waters and their use, shall –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of three hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 858. Original section/article: 361. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 859. Original section/article: 362. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Distortion of accounting data and reporting of water resources
Distortion of data on the collection, use of water and sanitation, as well as failure to submit them within the timeframes established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan,-
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 860. Original section/article: 362. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 861. Original section/article: 363. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding of regulation of water resources
Impeding of regulation of water resources in behalf of their complex use, ecology and water apportioning, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 862. Original section/article: 363. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 863. Original section/article: 364. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules of general water use
1. Violation of rules of general water use committed in the form of:
1) swimming, water intake for drinking and household needs,livestock watering, driving on small size vessels and other floating crafts in prohibited places;
2) restriction of the access of population to water objects of general use by individuals and legal entities by installation of fences, points of protection, prohibitory signs, shall –
entail a notification on individuals and legal entities.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in the amount of seven, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventeen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of forty-two monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 864. Original section/article: 364. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 865. Original section/article: 365. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of established water servitudes
1. Violation of established water servitudes, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of fifty, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large business entities - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of three hundred, for large business entities - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 866. Original section/article: 365. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 867. Original section/article: 366. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal grubbing, construction of buildings, wood processing, arrangement of warehouses on forest fund lands
Illegal grubbing, construction of buildings, wood processing, arrangement of warehouses on forest fund lands, shall –
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of five, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Note. Persons, committed administrative offences, provided by Articles 366, 368, 370, 371, 375, 381, 382, 386, 387 and 388 of this Code shall be subject to administrative penalty in the form of an administrative fine in case of damage caused by them, five or more times exceeding the monthly calculation index.
Footnote.

Section 868. Original section/article: 366. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 869. Original section/article: 367. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of fire security and sanitary rules in forests
1. Violation of requirements of fire security and sanitary rules in forests, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act that entailed fire development, infliction of the harm of human health and environment, if this action did not heavy damage, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty–five, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of forty-five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of seventy, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Acts provided for in parts one and two of this Article committed in specially protected natural territories, –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred and fifty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of four hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 870. Original section/article: 367. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 871. Original section/article: 368. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the established procedure for the use of the logging fund, harvesting and removal of wood, harvesting of oleoresin and wood juices, secondary wood resources (materials) 
Footnote. The title of

Section 872. Original section/article: 368. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation of the established procedure for the use of the logging fund, harvesting and removal of wood, harvesting of oleoresin and wood juices, secondary wood resources (materials) –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. An act provided for in part one of this Article committed in specially protected natural territories, –
entails a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of thirty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of sixty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 873. Original section/article: 368. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 874. Original section/article: 369. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of terms for return of temporary occupied fields of the forest fund and especially protected natural areas
1. Violation of terms for return of temporary occupied fields of the state forest fund and non-fulfillment of obligations on bringing to the state being suitable for use according to designated purpose, shall –
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of three, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of twenty-five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act committed in specially protected natural territories –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 875. Original section/article: 369. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 876. Original section/article: 370. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of hayfields and grazing areas, as well as illegal haying and grazing of livestock, gathering of medical plants and technical raw materials on lands of the forest fund
1. Damage of hayfields and grazing areas on lands of the forest fund, shall –
entails a warning or a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Illegal haying and grazing of livestock in forests and on lands of the forest fund, shall –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of seven monthly calculation indices.
3. Illegal gathering of medical plants and technical raw materials at the fields where it is prohibited or allowed only on forestry cards, shall –
entails a warning or a fine in the amount of seven monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided by parts one, two and three of this Article committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 877. Original section/article: 370. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 878. Original section/article: 371. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure and terms of forest invasions and other categories of lands of the forest fund designed for forest restoration and forest planting
Violation of procedure and terms of forest invasions and other categories of lands of the forest fund designed for forest restoration and forest planting, shall –
entail a notification or fine on civil servants in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 879. Original section/article: 372. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Destruction or damage of forest fauna, as well as damage, clogging of forests by wastes, chemical substances and other infliction of damage to the forest fund lands
1. Destruction or damage of forest fauna, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of eight, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of ten, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Damage of forest by waste waters, chemical substances, industrial and domestic emissions and wastes entailing its drying or disease, or clogging of forest, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty–five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of seventy, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Destruction or damage of forest drainage ditches, drainage systems and roads on the forest fund lands, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided by parts one, two and three of this Article committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of seventy, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of seven hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 880. Original section/article: 372. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 881. Original section/article: 373. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out forest uses not in accordance with the purposes or requirements provided by permitting documents
1. Carrying out forest uses not in accordance with the purposes or requirements provided by permitting documents, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of three, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of five, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of ten, for large businesses - in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action committed on the especially protected natural areas, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twenty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 882. Original section/article: 373. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 883. Original section/article: 374. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Construction and operation of objects that lead to adverse effect on condition and reproduction of forests
1. Construction and operation of objects that lead to adverse effect on condition and reproduction of forests, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of ten, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of fifteen, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty–five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 884. Original section/article: 374. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 885. Original section/article: 375. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of established procedure for withdrawal and assessment of wood cutting areas
Violation of established procedure for withdrawal and assessment of wood cutting areas, shall –
entail a notification or fine on civil servants in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 886. Original section/article: 376. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Admission of wood processing in amounts exceeding the rated wood cutting areas
Admission of wood processing in amounts exceeding the rated wood cutting areas, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 887. Original section/article: 377. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal transport, sale, storage and use of pesticides, toxic chemicals and other preparations
Footnote. Heading of

Section 888. Original section/article: 377. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Illegal transport, sale, storage and use of pesticides, toxic chemicals and other preparations, which have caused or may have caused pollution of the environment or damage to wildlife, excluding cases envisaged by

Section 889. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 890. Original section/article: 377. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 891. Original section/article: 378. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for protection of plant growing places and animals habitats, rules for creation, storage, recording and use of zoological collections, as well as illegal resettlement, introduction, reintroduction and hybridization of animal species
Footnote. Title of

Section 892. Original section/article: 378. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.07.2017 № 73-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Violation of rules for protection of plant growing places and animals habitats, conditions of reproduction, migration routes and locations of animal concentrations, rules for creation, storage, recording and use of zoological and botanical collections, as well as illegal migration, introduction, reintroduction and hybridization of animal species shall -
entail a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of eight, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of fourteen, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same acts committed in specially protected natural territories, –
entail a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of fifteen, for officials, small businesses – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses or non–profit organizations - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 893. Original section/article: 378. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.06.2017 № 73-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 894. Original section/article: 379. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of protective measures of the plants and animals upon placement, designing and construction of the inhabited localities, enterprises and other objects, upon carrying out of industrial processes and operation of the transport vehicles, application of protective measures of the plants, mineral manures of other preparations
Violation of protective measures of the plants and animals upon placement, designing and construction of the inhabited localities, enterprises and other objects, upon carrying out of industrial processes and operation of the transport vehicles, application of protective measures of the plants, mineral manures of other preparations, with the exception of cases provided by

Section 895. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of eight, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fourteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.

Section 896. Original section/article: 380. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for arrival of individuals on separate types of the especially protected natural areas
The stay of individuals without a special permit and outside the designated places for visiting in the territories of state nature reserves, state national nature parks, state natural reserves, state regional natural parks –
entails a warning or a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 897. Original section/article: 380. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 898. Original section/article: 380-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the regime of protection of specially protected natural territories 
1. Violation of the regime of protection of specially protected natural territories, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twenty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for in part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for officials, small business entities or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of forty, for large businesses - in the amount of the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 21 is supplemented by

Section 899. Original section/article: 380-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 900. Original section/article: 381. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage or destruction of objects of selective and genetic purpose
Damage or destruction of objects of selective and genetic purpose: plus trees, archived clones of plus trees, provenance trial plantations, test crops of populations and hybrids, trees and bushes on forest seed orchards, trees and bushes on permanent seed plantations, trees and bushes in plus stands, shall –
entails a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of fifty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of eighty, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 901. Original section/article: 381. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 902. Original section/article: 381-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal felling, destruction or damage of trees and bushes
1. Illegal felling, destruction or damage of trees and shrubs not included in the forest fund and prohibited for felling, except for trees and shrubs on household, suburban and garden plots, as well as destruction or damage to forest crops, seedlings or seedlings in forest nurseries and plantations, as well as youngsters of natural origin, undergrowth or self-seeding in the areas intended for forest reproduction and afforestation, causing damage to up to fifty monthly calculation indices –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of illegally felled trees and shrubs, vehicles and other items of the infractor, which were the instrument for committing these violations.
2. Illegal felling, destruction or damage of trees and shrubs included in the forest fund, causing damage up to fifty monthly calculation indices – –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of illegally felled trees and shrubs, vehicles and other items of the infractor, which were the instrument for committing these violations.
3. Actions provided for in parts one or two of this Article committed in specially protected natural areas or repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of four hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of six hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of illegally felled trees and shrubs, vehicles and other items of the infractor, which were the instrument for committing these violations.
Footnote. Chapter 21 is supplemented by

Section 903. Original section/article: 381-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 904. Original section/article: 382. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of using animal world and hunting rules
1. Violation of requirements of using animal world and (or) hunting rules that does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entails a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of five, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twenty–five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same violation provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of fifteen, for small businesses – in the amount of sixty–five, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the right to hunt for up to two years, with confiscation of tools for obtaining animals, vehicles and other objects that were the instrument of committing the specified violation.
3. The act provided for in part one of this article committed in specially protected natural territories –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of seventy, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred ten, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculated indicators or deprivation of the right to hunt for up to two years, with confiscation of items and (or) tools of an administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 905. Original section/article: 382. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 906. Original section/article: 383. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for fishing and protection of fish resources and other shell-fish
1. Violation of rules for fishing, as well as rules for carrying out of the other types of using fish resources and other shell-fish that does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Gross violation of the rules for fishing, with the exception of amateur (sport) fishing during the prohibited terms by prohibited instruments or methods at the prohibited places, as well as the rules for carrying out the other types of using fish resources and the other shell-fish that does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the subjects and (or) instrument of the administrative infraction or without such.
4. Action provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the subjects and (or) instrument of the administrative infraction or without such.
5. Water intake from fishery water bodies without installation of the special tools for prevention from appearing of fish in water intake facilities, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 907. Original section/article: 384. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation in the field of protection, reproduction and use of fish resources and other shell-fish
Violation of requirements of the legislation in the field of protection, reproduction and use of the fish resources and other shell-fish, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act committed in the form of:
1) admission of discharging the hazardous substances exceeding established standards;
2) failure to provide the structures and devices of new and reconstructed objects preventing the adverse effect, pollution and clogging of waters;
3) use of livestock farms and other industrial complexes that do not have disposal facilities and sanitary-protective zones;
4) use of the structures and devices for transportation and storage of oil, chemical and other products without their equipping by the means for preventing water pollution;
5) use of pesticides, fertilizers on the water protection zones of water bodies;
6) discharge and burial of the radioactive and toxic substances into water objects;
7) discharge of sewage waters of industrial, food objects into water objects that do not have the disposal facilities and that do not ensure effective treatment in accordance with the standards;
8) applying the equipment and technology on water objects and water facilities representing a threat to environment;
9) discharge of solid, industrial, household and other wastes and their burial into water objects;
10) clogging of the water-producing areas of water objects, ice sheets of water objects, ice streams by solid, industrial, household and other wastes, the washing of which entails quality degradation of the surface water objects, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 908. Original section/article: 384. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 909. Original section/article: 385. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for conduct of hunting
1. Violation of rules for conduct of hunting, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act committed in the form of:
1) illegal restriction of visiting the hunting areas;
2) applying prohibited types, methods and duration for hunting;
3) non-ensuring of organizing protection, reproduction and use of animal world on the allocated hunting areas, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed three and more times within one year after imposition of administrative sanction, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, or deprivation of the right to conduct hunting.
Footnote.

Section 910. Original section/article: 385. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 911. Original section/article: 386. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for maintenance and protection of green plantings
Violation of rules for maintenance and protection of green plantings established by the local representative bodies of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital, except for cases, provided for by

Section 912. Original section/article: 381-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals, sixty for small enterprises or non-profit organisations, one hundred for medium-sized enterprises and three hundred for large enterprises.
Footnote.

Section 913. Original section/article: 386. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 210-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 914. Original section/article: 387. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Untimely clearing the felling site from the felling wastes, clogging of glades and territories adjoining to cutting areas
1. Untimely clearing the felling site from the felling wastes, clogging of glades and territories adjoining to cutting areas, shall –
entail a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twelve, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of thirty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of forty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 915. Original section/article: 387. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 916. Original section/article: 388. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure and terms for development of cutting areas
1. Violation of procedure and terms for development of cutting areas, shall –
entail a warning or fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twelve, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of twenty-five, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed on especially protected natural areas, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of thirty, for officials, small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of fifty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of seventy, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 917. Original section/article: 388. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 918. Original section/article: 389. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal acquisition, sale, transit, entry, outflow, storage (management) of species of wild animal and plants, their parts and derivatives
1. Illegal acquisition, sale, transit, entry, outflow, storage (management) of species of wild animal and plants, their parts and derivatives, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the species of wild animals and plants and their products.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within one year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred forty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the species of wild animals and plants and their products.

Section 919. Original section/article: 390. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of procedure for issuance and use of the issued permissions for using the animal world
1. Violation of procedure for issuance of permission for using the animal world, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the issued permissions for using the animal world that is expressed in illegal seizure of the age-sex group (in case of indication), terms for seizure, territory and borders of a field of supposed seizure, methods for seizure (catching, killing, gathering) of the wild animals from environmental conditions, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twelve, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 920. Original section/article: 391. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal change of conditions of the granted licence, and equally violation of the approved procedure for conduct of petroleum operations at sea
Illegal change of conditions of the granted licence, and equally violation of the approved procedure for conduct of petroleum operations at sea, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 921. Original section/article: 392. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of petroleum operations at sea creating an obstacle and inflicting damage to marine navigation, fishing
1. Carrying out of petroleum operations at sea creating an obstacle and inflicting damage to marine navigation, fishing, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. Actions provided by parts one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of seventy five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the vessel and tools of committing infraction or without such.
Footnote.

Section 922. Original section/article: 392. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 923. Original section/article: 393. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for conduct of the marine scientific researches on a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of rules for conduct of the marine scientific researches provided by the permission or international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan that created or might create the interferences to legal types of activity on a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or illegal change of a program of the marine scientific researches on the continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 924. Original section/article: 394. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of rules for burial of wastes and other materials, as well as the rules for conservation and disassembling on a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of rules for burial of vessels and other floating crafts, flight vehicles, artificial islands, installations and structures, wastes and other materials, as well as the rules for conservation and disassembling provided by the international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan that may lead to the damage of mineral deposits, inflict harm to life or health of humans, inflict damage to biological resources, marine flora and fauna or create interferences to the other legal types of activity on a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of ninety, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 925. Original section/article: 394. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 926. Original section/article: 395. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to perform the legal requirements of civil servants of the bodies for protection of a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Failure to perform the legal requirements of civil servants of the bodies for protection of a continental shelve of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as impeding to exercising the powers by these civil servants imposed on them, including inspection of a vessel, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seventy of monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices with confiscation of the vessel and tools of committing infraction, as well as received results of researches or without such.

Section 927. Original section/article: 396. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal transfer of mineral and biological resources of a continental shelve, territorial waters (seas) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal transfer of mineral and biological resources of a continental shelve, territorial waters (seas) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan to foreign persons, legal entities created in accordance with the legislation of another state, or to foreign states, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred percent of the costs of illegally transferred mineral and biological resources.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred percent of the costs of illegally transferred mineral and biological resources with confiscation of the vessel and tools of committing the infraction, as well as received results of researches or without such.

Section 928. Original section/article: 397. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation on environmental audit
Footnote.

Section 929. Original section/article: 397. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 930. Original section/article: 398. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sale of caviar marked with violation of the procedure for marking, or unmarked caviar of sturgeon species of fishes
1. Sale of caviar marked with violation of the procedure for marking, or unmarked caviar of sturgeon species of fishes, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ninety, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred twenty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the caviar, marked with violation of procedure for marking, or caviar sold without marking.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seventy, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred twenty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the caviar, marked with violation of procedure for marking, or caviar sold without marking.

Section 931. Original section/article: 399. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations in the performance of work and the provision of services in the field of environmental protection
1. Submission of false data in the provision of services by individuals and legal entities performing work and providing services in the field of environmental protection, shall –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year, and by the subjects of large enetrepreneurship – within three years after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of eight hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the licence for the corresponding type of service.
3. Commitment of actions provided for in parts one and two of this Article that caused environmental damage or committed more than three times, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on the subjects of small entrepreneurship in the amount of four hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of six hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a licence for the corresponding type of service.
Footnote.

Section 932. Original section/article: 399. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021). 
Chapter 22. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD OF PLANTS PROTECTION AND QUARANTINE, GRAIN MARKET AND GRAIN STORAGE, SEED PRODUCTION AND STATE VETERINARY-SANITARY CONTROL AND SUPERVISION, PEDIGREE ANIMAL HUSBANDRY, AND ALSO IMPLEMENTATION OF MECHANISMS FOR STABILIZING PRICES ON STAPLE FOODS
Footnote. Heading of Chapter 22 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 10.06.2024 № 91-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 933. Original section/article: 400. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of quarantine of plants
1. Violation of phytosanitary requirements to entered quarantineable products and conduct of the phytosanitary measures committed in the form of:
1) entry of the quarantineable products into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan that do not conform to phytosanitary requirements submitted to the entered quarantineable products;
2) entry of a batch of quarantineable products of the high phytosanitary risk into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without the phytosanitary certificate of the national quarantine service of exporting country;
3) entry of a batch of quarantineable products of the high phytosanitary risk into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without the re-export phytosanitary certificate of the national quarantine service of exporting country;
4) carrying out of transfer of the imported quarantineable products through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan with violation of phytosanitary requirements of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) non-representation of the quarantineable products for survey;
6) non-conduct of the annual preventive decontamination of storage capacities in which the storage or processing of the quarantineable products is carried out;
7) use of the planting or seed material before obtainment of the results of a laboratory examination;
8) non-compliance with conditions for storage of the imported planting or seed material before obtainment of the results of a laboratory examination;
9) use of grain, grain legume, oil-producing crops entered into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the seeding purposes for use in accordance with industrial, feed and technical purposes;
10) non-conduct of clearing the transport vehicles after transferring the imported quarantineable products, as well as the quarantineable products from the quarantine zones with compulsory destruction of wastes;
11) re-shipping of the quarantineable products on passage or point of destination without permission of the authorized body;
12) non-representation of the entered quarantineable products for the secondary quarantine examination at the point of its destination;
13) use of the seed or planting material for sowing obstructed by quarantine undesirable plants;
14) carrying out of storage or clearance of the quarantineable products procured in a zone of spreading the quarantine objects from the quarantineable products, procured in the zone being free from quarantine objects;
15) non-ensuring of a systematical inspection of sowings, territories, warehouses, the activity of which is linked with production, procurement, processing, storage, transportation and sale of the quarantineable products;
16) excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective since 01.01.2025) - 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of quarantine of plants upon entry, interstate transportations and upon selling the quarantineable products committed in the form of:
1) import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and in domestic transport of quarantine products, as well as vehicles infected with quarantine objects and alien species;
2) violation of prohibitions or restrictions for entry of the quarantineable products into the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) sale of the quarantineable products by quarantine objects;
4) re-shipping of the quarantineable products exported from the quarantine zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan on passage;
5) transportation of mites, nematodes and living insects entered for the scientifically research purposes at the same time with the grain, grain legume, feedstuff, oil-producing, technical crops and their products after processing, fruits, vegetables, fruits and potato, planting or seed material, cuts of natural flowers and potted plants, wood, wrapping and support materials;
6) violation of prohibitions or restrictions for export of the quarantineable products contaminated by quarantine objects from the quarantine phytosanitary zone, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the quarantineable products in case of impossibility of its decontamination and processing.
3. Untimely or improper maintenance of the accounting of spreading the quarantine objects or untimely or improper organization of the measures on quarantine of the plants on the objects of the state control and supervision in the field of quarantine of plants, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants I amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. Action (omission) provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 934. Original section/article: 400. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective since 01.01.2025).

Section 935. Original section/article: 401. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on grain
1. Sale of grain upon export and import without the relevant passport of quality of grain, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.12.2015 № 435-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016). 
3. Violation of rules for conducting quantative and qualitative grain accounting, rules for formation and maintenance of state electronic register of grain receipts holders by the cereal receiving enterprises, committed in the form of:
1) improper registration of grain coming into cereal receiving points;
2) improper registration of clearance, drying of grain;
3) improper registration of discharging grain;
4) improper keeping of the book of qualitative and quantitative accounting of grain;
5) non-compliance with the procedure for determining the gross physical weight of grain;
6) non-compliance with the term for issue and repayment of grain receipt;
7) input of unreliable information into state electronic register of grain receipts holders;
8) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 502-V (order of enforcement see.

Section 936. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
9) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 502-V (order of enforcement see.

Section 937. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
10) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 502-V (order of enforcement see.

Section 938. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Carrying out of an activity, that does not relate to provision of services for warehouse activity with the issue of grain receipts by a cereal receiving point, with exception of activity, permitted by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Grain", - shall
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
4-1. The issuance of guarantees by a cereal receiving point and (or) provision of its property as collateral for obligations of third parties shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred and twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of a license validity term
5. Systematical (two and more times within six sequential calendar months) distortion of the quantitative and qualitative indices of grain by cereal receiving points upon condition of their documentary proof, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Alienation of basic assets by a cereal receiving point, without which the implementation of activity on providing services for warehouse activities with the issue of grain receipts becomes completely impossible or significantly worsens, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship businesses in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred and eighty monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of a license validity term.
7. Failure to eliminate the violations that entailed bringing to administrative liability provided by parts four, five, six of this Article upon expiry of suspension of the license validity term, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of the license.
8-9. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.12.2015 № 435-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016). 
10. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on grain by members of a commission on temporary management or temporary administration during the period of temporary management of a cereal receiving point, shall –
entail a fine on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Non-compliance of the procedure for storing of grain by cereal receiving points, as well as measures, ensuring their quantitative and qualitative preservation, failure to ensure in the established manner the sampling of grain by its owner shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 939. Original section/article: 401. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.12.2015 № 435-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 09.04.2016 № 502-V (for the procedure of enforcement see Art. 2); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 940. Original section/article: 402. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violations upon carrying out of entrepreneurial activity and rendering of services in the field of seed production
1. Carrying out activity on production, sale, storage, transportation and use of seeds with the breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of seed production committed in the form of:
1) use of the seeds of agricultural plants being contaminated by quarantine objects for sowing (planting);
2) -3) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.11.2015 № 424-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); 
4) use of the seeds for sowing (planting) in attested elite-seed and seed production that do not conform to variety and sowing qualities;
5) use of the seeds for sowing (planting) that did not undergo the examination of the seeds’ sowing qualities;
6) sale and use of the seeds for sowing (planting) that do not conform to the requirements of technical regulations;
7) violation of the procedure and terms for conducting strain renovation and variety changing;
8) failure to acquire original seeds of the varieties and parental forms of hybrids for ensuring of producing elite seeds for the purpose of their further sale;
9) failure to keep accounting of a quantity, origin of the seeds sold and used for own purposes, their varietal and sowing qualities;
10) failure to create insurance and financial funds of the seeds of agricultural plants on account of own funds, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of seventeen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the examination of varietal and sowing seed qualities by approbators, experts of seeds and attested legal entities rendering the services on conduct of approbation of the varietal sowings of agricultural plants, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of ten, on legal entities – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the qualifying requirements submitted to the activity in the field of seed production by attested individuals and legal entities, as well as approbators and experts of seeds, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, on attested persons – deprivation of the attestation certificate certifying the right of subjects to carrying out of the activity in the field of seed production.
5. Untimely conduct of attestation, re-attestation of the subjects of seed production, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 941. Original section/article: 402. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 27.11.2015 № 424-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 942. Original section/article: 403. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on protection of plants
1. Non-representation, and equally untimely representation of phytosanitary reporting, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on individuals, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to implement phytosanitary monitoring and phytosanitary measures at phytosanitary control facilities, resulting in the development and spread of harmful and especially dangerous pests with numbers above the economic threshold of harmfulness, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to neutralize pesticides and maintenance, support of special storages (burial grounds) in improper state, committed in the form of:
1) absence of special storage facilities (burial grounds) for neutralization of pesticides and containers from under them; 
2) absence of methods and technologies for neutralization of worn-out pesticides and containers from under them, developed and provided by suppliers (manufacturers, importers, sellers) of pesticides; 
3) storage of pesticides of the first hazard class, which have become unusable for further use for their intended purpose, in containers that do not ensure tightness and do not exclude the possibility of environmental contamination with pesticides; 
4) packaging of pesticides of the second hazard class, if necessary, in multilayer containers made of polymeric materials without special inserts (depending on the specifics of pesticide); 
5) repackaging of pesticides with damaged packaging integrity;
6) absence of high-temperature installations that ensure the decomposition of combustible compounds to non-toxic (non-hazardous) substances in places determined in accordance with the legislation by state environmental control and sanitary and epidemiological welfare of population for destruction of paper or wooden containers from pesticides by burning; 
7) absence of mechanization means for loading, transporting and unloading prohibited, worn-out pesticides and containers from under them, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Failure to take measures on construction of the special storages (burial grounds), shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
5. Action (omission) provided by parts one, two, three and four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 943. Original section/article: 403. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be implemented sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 944. Original section/article: 404. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on development of cotton industry

Section 945. Original section/article: 404. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022).

Section 946. Original section/article: 405. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with maximum markup upon realization of price stabilization mechanisms for socially important food products 
Non-compliance with maximum markup upon realization of price stabilization mechanisms for socially important food products – 
shall entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 947. Original section/article: 405. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 948. Original section/article: 406. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of veterinary medicine
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of veterinary medicine committed in the form of:
1) non-compliance with conditions and requirements of the quarantine and restrictive measures;
2) non-compliance with the veterinary (veterinary and sanitary) rules, requirements and veterinary standards:
upon placement, construction, reconstruction and putting into operation of the objects of state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision linked with maintenance, breeding, use, production, procurement (slaughtering), storage, processing and sale of the relocated (transferred) objects being subordinated to the state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision;
upon maintenance, breeding and use of animals, including the animals in zoological gardens, circuses, at bee gardens, in aquariums;
upon carrying out of the activity on the objects of internal trade; on production objects carrying out growth of animals, procurement (slaughtering), storage, processing and sale of animals, products and and raw materials of animal origin; in organization on production, storage and sale of veterinary preparations, feeding stuff and feed supplements;
upon carrying out of the transportation (displacement) of the relocated (transferred) objects in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan being subordinated to the state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision;
3) non-compliance with requirements of the regulatory legal acts on protection of a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from carrying and spreading of contagious and exotic diseases of animals from other states;
4) non-compliance with conditions and requirements for slaughtering of the live-stock animals designed for the following selling;
5) carrying out of production, entry (import), sale and applying (use) of veterinary preparations, feed supplements without their state registration, with the exception of the cases of production, entry (import) in capacities required for conduct of their registration tests, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to conduct or improper conduct of veterinary measures, as well as violation of the terms for their conduct, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions (omission) provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-ensuring of identification of live-stock animals, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
6. Action (omission) provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Failure to perform the functions by the local executive bodies imposed on them by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of veterinary medicine, shall –
entail a notification on civil servants of the local executive bodies.
8. Action (omission) provided by a part seven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants of the local executive bodies in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. Non-notifying the subdivisions of the local executive bodies carrying out the activity in the field of veterinary medicine, state veterinary organizations created by the local executive bodies, bodies of the state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision on:
1) newly acquired animal (animals), received animal yield, its (their) slaughtering and sale;
2) cases of loss, simultaneous disease of several animals or on their unusual behavior and failure to take the measures of isolate maintenance of the animals upon suspicion of disease before arrival of the specialists in the field of veterinary medicine, state veterinary and sanitary inspectors, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – the fine in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Action (omission) provided by a part nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Violation of the procedure for issuance of veterinary documents and requirements to their forms, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
12. Action (omission) provided by a part eleven of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
13. Failure to render assistance to the specialists in the fields of veterinary medicine upon performance of their official duties on conduct of veterinary measures, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
14. Violation of rules for quarantine of animals, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
15. Violation of the regulatory legal acts on the issues of struggle against epizootics, as well as other regulatory legal acts in the field of veterinary medicine that did not entail spreading of the epizootics or other grave consequences, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
16. Actions (omission) provided by parts thirteen, fourteen and fifteen of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 949. Original section/article: 407. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on livestock breeding
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on livestock breeding committed in the form of:
1) sale of pedigree products (material) that have not been bonitated (valued) by individuals and legal entities;
2) sale of pedigree products (material) without issuing a pedigree certificate by individuals and legal entities;
3) refusal of the objects in the field of livestock breeding from maintenance of data accounting and non-representation of reporting;
4) non-execution of the acts of state inspectors for pedigree cattle breeding by subjects in the field of pedigree cattle breeding, individuals and legal entities, who received budget subsidies;
5) use of the seed and embryos by the subjects in the field of livestock breeding received from the pedigree animals not registered in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on livestock breeding;
6) use of pedigree animals, that have not been bonitated (evaluated), by individuals and legal entities for reproduction;
7) falsification of the results of bonitation (evaluation) of pedigree animals by individuals and legal entities;
8) -9) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.11.2015 № 424-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); 
2. Non-compliance with the obligations established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On livestock breeding” by individuals and legal entities carrying out the activity in the field of livestock breeding subjected to notification, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the activity on subjects in the field of livestock breeding or without such.
3. Actions (omission) provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, and equally failure to eliminate the violations provided by parts one and two of this Article that entailed bringing to administrative liability, shall –
entail prohibition of the activity in the field of livestock breeding.
Footnote.

Section 950. Original section/article: 407. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.11.2015 № 424-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 951. Original section/article: 407-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Animal abuse
1. Cruelty to animals, if this act does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, -
entails a fine on individuals in amount of five, on officials - in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided for by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
entails a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials - in amount of forty monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote. Chapter 22 is supplemented by

Section 952. Original section/article: 407-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2021 № 99-VII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 953. Original section/article: 407-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of responsible treatment of animals
1. Violation of the requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of responsible treatment of animals for:
1) trapping, temporary keeping and killing of animals;
2) accounting for pets;
3) the keeping of animals in zoological nurseries, animal shelters, zoological hotels, stations for temporary keeping of animals, rehabilitation centers for animals,except for the cases provided for in paragraph three of subparagraph 2) of part one of

Section 954. Original section/article: 406. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
4) keeping and walking pets;
5) transportation of animals, with the exception of cases provided for in paragraph five of subparagraph 2) of part one of

Section 955. Original section/article: 406. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, parts 2-1 and four of

Section 956. Original section/article: 571. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code -
entails a fine on individuals in the amount of ten, on officials - in the amount of twenty, on legal entities - in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices. 
2. The act provided for by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
entails a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 22 is supplemented by

Section 957. Original section/article: 407-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2021 № 99-VII (for the procedure of entry into force, see

Section 958. Original section/article: 408. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for grazing farm animals
1. Violation of the rules for grazing farm animals established by local representative bodies of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital, -
entails a fine in the amount of three monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action that caused damage to the property of individuals, -
entails a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices. 
Footnote.

Section 959. Original section/article: 408. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2021 № 99-VII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 960. Original section/article: 408-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of production of organic products
Footnote.

Section 961. Original section/article: 408-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2024 № 91-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Chapter 23. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD OF
EDUCATION, PHYSICAL TRAINING AND SPORT
Footnote. Title of Chapter 23 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 962. Original section/article: 409. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of education, physical training and sport
Footnote. Title of

Section 963. Original section/article: 409. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 294-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
2. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of education by parents or another legal representatives, shall –
entail a notification or a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations by a head or other civil servant of educational organization due to negligent or unfair relation to them, if this entailed infliction of light harm to health of the pupils, students and employees of the educational organization during the academic and educational process, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3-1. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 240-VI dated 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
4. Violation of the requirements by educational organizations committed in the form of:
1) non-compliance with the standard rules for activity of educational organizations;
2) non-compliance with the standard rules for admission in educational organizations;
3) non-compliance with the standard rules for change and reinstatement of students by the types of educational organizations;
4) non-compliance with the standard rules for provision of academic leaves for students in educational organizations;
5) non-compliance with the standard rules of competitive substitution of the positions of higher-education teaching personnel and scientific workers of educational organizations;
6) failure to comply with the rules for the rotation of the first heads of state organisations of preschool, secondary, technical and vocational, post-secondary education and supplementary education;
7) non-compliance with the rules of appointment to posts, dismissal from posts of the first heads and teachers of state educational organisations;
8) non-observance of the rules of rendering state services in the sphere of preschool education, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term.
4-1. Failure by the founder (founders) of an organization of higher and (or) postgraduate education, within the time limit, established by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to transfer students to continue their studies and transfer their personal files to other organizations of higher and (or) postgraduate education and (or) transfer personal files of persons who have not completed their education or have not passed the final certification, and also, personal files and copies of educational documents of persons who completed their studies at the educational organization in previous years, to the appropriate state archive in case of deprivation (revocation), termination of the license and (or) the appendix to the license to engage in educational activities or liquidation of the organization of higher and (or) postgraduate education –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials – in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for small businesses or non–profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized businesses – in the amount of three hundred, for large business entities – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
4-2. The action (inaction) provided for in part 4-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for officials – in the amount of two hundred, for small businesses or non–profit organizations - in the amount of three hundred, for medium-sized businesses – in the amount of in the amount of five hundred, for large business entities – in the amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Creation and activity of organizational structures of political parties in educational organizations, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
6. Non-conformance of rendered educational services to the requirements of the state obligatory educational standard, as well as other violations of the requirements of the state obligatory educational standards, shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of thirty calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term.
7. Action (omission) provided by parts one – six of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative infraction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of a permit document.
7-1. Action provided by part four of this Article, committed by an education organization, carrying out activity in a notification procedure, repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall – 
entail a fine on officials in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of activity.
7-2. Non-compliance with the requirements for providing the access of students and boarders to the Internet using the services of communication operators designed to restrict children's access to information, detrimental to their health and development by educational organizations, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
7-3. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on teacher status, committed in the form of:
1) attracting a teacher to types of work that are not related to professional duties, except for cases provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) requesting from a teacher reporting or information not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of education;
3) conducting an audit not provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) imposing on a teacher the obligation to purchase goods and services;
5) attracting a teacher of a state organization of secondary education, in the course of his professional activity, to conduct events of non-governmental organizations,
entail a warning.
7-4. Action provided by part 7-3 of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of twenty, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices.
7-5. Admission to professional activity of a teacher of persons:
1) deprived of the right to carry out the professional activity of a teacher in accordance with a court verdict that has entered into legal force;
2) recognized as incapable or partially incapable in the manner established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) having medical contraindications, being on the psychiatric and (or) narcological account;
4) not having documents on technical and professional, post-secondary, higher or postgraduate education; 
5) having other restrictions provided by the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - Республики Казахстан, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices.
7-6. Manifestation of disrespect for a teacher in the performance of his official duties, consisting in obscene language, indecent behavior, offensive harassment, demonstration of indecent gestures (signs), objects, including with the use of mass media or telecommunications networks, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
7-7. Actions provided by part 7-6 of this Article, committed by minors between the ages of twelve and sixteen, shall -
entail a fine on parents or persons replacing them in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
7-8. Actions provided by part 7-6 of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to five days.
7-9. Actions provided by part 7-7 of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
entail a fine on parents or persons replacing them in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
8. Non-compliance with the requirements on supplying the sports equipment and equipping the places for conduct of activities and competitions, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. Liquidation, change of the designated and functional purpose of health and fitness, sports facilities being in the state ownership without the creation of the equal health and fitness, sports facilities, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Non-compliance with the requirements on supporting participants of sports events by the medical assistance and access of sportsmen to them that did not pass medical examination in accordance with the regulatory requirements, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. The act provided by a part nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
12. Violation of the anti-doping rules of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a trainer, coach-teacher, sports medicine specialist and (or) other specialist in the field of physical culture and sports, expressed in the use of prohibited substances and (or) prohibited methods in sports against an athlete, regardless of the athlete's consent or in facilitating the use by the athlete or in relation to the athlete of prohibited substances and (or) prohibited methods, -
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. Assistance in use by an athlete or in relation to an athlete of a prohibited substance and (or) prohibited method in sport in this article means any action that promotes the use of a Prohibited Substance and (or) prohibited method in sport, including advice, guidance, provision of information, provision of prohibited substances, means of using prohibited methods, removing barriers to the use of prohibited substances and (or) prohibited methods in sports, as well as hiding traces of the use of prohibited substances and (or) prohibited methods in sports.
Footnote.

Section 964. Original section/article: 409. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 09.04.2016 №501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 170-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 240-VI dated 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 13.12.2019 № 280-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 294-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 24. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS ENCROACHING
ON PUBLIC SAFETY AND HEALTH OF POPULATION

Section 965. Original section/article: 410. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation or non-compliance with the requirements of fire safety, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations 
Footnote. Title of

Section 966. Original section/article: 410. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.10.2018 № 184-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Violation or non-compliance with the requirements of fire safety in organizations, buildings, structures, constructions, residential buildings, public places, agricultural land, technological installations, equipment, units and other property established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of the requirements established by technical regulations, –
shall entail a warning or a fine of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, a fine of fifteen monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-profit organisations, a fine of fifty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and a fine of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for individuals, twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
3. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article that entailed the fire development that inflicted harm to human health or major damage, in the absence of criminal offence elements, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for individuals, twenty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, two hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and three hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Note. As applied to this Article, the significant damage shall be regarded as the sum exceeding fifty monthly calculation indices at the time of commission of the administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 967. Original section/article: 410. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.10.2018 № 184-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 968. Original section/article: 410-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon conduct of audit in the field of fire security
1. Non-representation or untimely representation of a copy of conclusion on results of conducted audit in the field of fire security by an expert organization to the territorial subdivision of the authorized body in the scope of civil protection, shall –
entail a fine on the expert organization in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Representation of conclusion in view of the results of conducting the audit in the field of fire security by the expert organization containing inaccurate information on conformance (non-conformance) of the object of requirement to the fire security, shall –
entail a fine on the expert organization in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Action (omission) provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, as well as representation of knowingly false conclusion by the expert organization in view of the results of conducting audit in the field of fire security, shall –
entail a fine on expert organizations in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices with deprivation of the accreditation certificate.
Footnote. Chapter 24 is supplemented by

Section 969. Original section/article: 410-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 970. Original section/article: 411. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release and sale of explosive and fire hazardous products that do not meet the requirements of fire security
Release and sale of fire and explosion hazardous and fire dangerous products that shall not meet the requirements of fire safety, if this did not entail infliction of grave or average gravity harm to health carelessly and (or) heavy damage to an individual or legal entity, or the state, –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Note. As applied to this Article of this Code, the heavy damage shall be regarded as the sum exceeding one hundred monthly calculation indices at the time of commission of administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 971. Original section/article: 410. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.10.2018 № 184-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 972. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to implement civil defence measures to prevent natural and man-made emergencies, as established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of civil defence 
1. Failure to implement civil protection measures designed to prevent natural and man-made emergencies, as laid down by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of civil protection, manifested in the form of:
1) failure to inform the public and organisations of civil protection measures;
2) failure to establish firefighting stations and to provide them with the equipment and supplies required in settlements where there are no units of the state fire service;
3) failure to render necessary assistance in the event of harmful effects caused by hazardous industrial factors, by utilising available personnel, equipment and resources to implement measures aimed at containing such effects, saving lives, protecting people’s health, rights and legitimate interests, safeguarding property and maintaining public order;
4) failure to ensure the establishment and maintenance of the forces and resources of the territorial civil protection management sub-system in a state of constant readiness; 
5) failure to ensure the implementation of the local budget for civil defence, the prevention and response to emergencies and their consequences, as approved by the budgetary allocations;
6) failure to specify volumes and to take the measures required for the accumulation, storage, renewal and maintenance of civil defence assets;
7) failure to ensure the reliability and resilience of existing buildings and structures in areas where deposits are being developed and in earthquake-prone regions;
8) failure to organise the installation of technical warning systems;
9) failure to ensure information exchange between the emergency and rescue services of districts, towns of regional and district significance, regions, cities of national importance, the capital, and civil defence services with the single 112 emergency call centre; 
10) failure to approve action plans for the management of local-scale emergencies and their consequences;
11) failure to ensure the extinguishing of steppe fires, as well as fires in settlements where there are no units of the state fire service; 
12) failure to ensure the allocation of funds from the emergency reserve of local executive bodies for the prevention and response to natural and man-made emergencies and their consequences;
13) failure to develop and implement measures to prevent emergencies, safeguard human life and health, protect material and cultural assets, and to mitigate the consequences and minimise damage in the event of emergencies;
14) failure to organise healthcare, including the provision of medicines and medical devices, for those affected in the emergency zone; 
15) failure to register and deregister hazardous technical equipment at social infrastructure facilities;
16) failure to ensure the development and approval of a civil defence plan for the central executive body; 
17) failure to implement fire prevention measures in subordinate organisations;
18) failure to ensure the establishment of civil defence stockpiles within subordinate organisations and failure to exercise internal control over their storage, renewal and maintenance in a state of readiness for use;
19) failure to ensure the development and approval of action plans for the management of global and regional emergencies, in consultation with the competent civil protection authority;
20) failure to ensure the establishment of backup (urban and rural), auxiliary and mobile command posts shall result in a fine of fifty monthly calculation indices being imposed on the officials concerned.
2. Action (or inaction) as referred to in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall result in a fine of one hundred monthly calculation indices for officials.
3. Action (or inaction) as specified in part one of this article, which has led to the occurrence of a natural or man-made emergency resulting in minor harm to human health or insignificant damage, where no criminal offence has been committed shall result in a fine of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices being imposed on officials.
Note: For the purposes of this article, a negligible amount of damage shall be deemed to be an amount not exceeding two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 24 has been supplemented with

Section 973. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall come into force on 01.01.2027).

Section 974. Original section/article: 412. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation or failure to comply with the safety rules on water reservoir
Violation or failure to comply with the safety rules on water reservoirs committed by a person being liable for their compliance in the absence of the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seven, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship - in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 975. Original section/article: 412. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 976. Original section/article: 413. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of radiation safety requirements upon using nuclear energy
1. Unjustified or intentional release of radioactive substances into the atmosphere, water environment and subsoil in quantities exceeding the levels established by the authorized state bodies; violation of the requirements on ensuring accounting and control of radioactive substances and sources of ionizing radiation, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty – five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or suspension of a license in the field of nuclear energy use.
2. Involvement in economic circulation for the purpose of use and consumption by the population of products and materials exposed to radiation or containing radioactive substances, without permission of the authorized state bodies, admission to work at nuclear power facility of persons who have not undergone appropriate training or do not have a document certifying their qualifications, as well as persons under the age of eighteen or having medical contraindications, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty – five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship -in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or deprivation of a license in the field of nuclear energy use.
Footnote.

Section 977. Original section/article: 413. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 978. Original section/article: 413-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements of technical regulations in the field of use atomic energy by legal entities 
1. Violation of the requirements of technical regulations for use atomic energy by legal entities – 
shall entail a fine in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices with suspension of certain types of the activities or without one.
2. Action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices with prohibition of certain types of activities or without one.
Note.
In this article, by legal entities shall be understood the entities carrying out the activities for use atomic energy with nuclear facilities and objects of I and II categories of potential radiation hazard.
Footnote. Chapter 24 is supplemented by

Section 979. Original section/article: 413-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 980. Original section/article: 414. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of Nuclear proliferation regime
Violation of the established procedure for nuclear export and import; violation of the requirements on ensuring physical protection of nuclear materials, nuclear facilities, sources of ionizing radiation and storage points; violation of requirements on ensuring accounting and control of nuclear materials or sources of ionizing radiation, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the licenses, special permissions for the activity in the scope of using nuclear energy.
Footnote.

Section 981. Original section/article: 414. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 982. Original section/article: 415. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of technical regulation 
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of technical regulation committed in the form of:
1) putting into circulation products that fail to comply with the requirements established by technical regulations, as well as information specified in documents on conformity assessment;
2) putting into circulation products in respect of which technical regulations have been enacted that have not undergone conformity assessment, as well as without conformity assessment documents or in the absence of information on the availability of such documents in the register of technical regulation or unified registers of issued or accepted conformity assessment documents of the Eurasian Economic Union, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ninety, on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred and ninety five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred and ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and thirty five, on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of three hundred and sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of six hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand and two hundred monthly calculation indices, with or without suspension of activities, with confiscation of the products or without it.
Footnote.

Section 983. Original section/article: 415. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 984. Original section/article: 415-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accreditation for conformity assessment during accreditation, procedures for confirmation and (or) conformity assessment, verification of measuring means established by technical regulations, regulatory legal acts and standardization documents 
1. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on accreditation for conformity assessment during accreditation, procedures for confirmation and (or) conformity assessment, verification of measuring means established by technical regulations, regulatory legal acts and standardization documents, committed in the form of:
1) violation of the rules for conducting procedures of confirmation and (or) conformity assessment, verification of measuring means;
2) unreliability of the test results upon conducting confirmation and (or) conformity assessment, verification of measuring means;
3) issuance of documents confirming compliance, and issuance of certificate on verification of measuring means without carrying out compulsory procedures;
4) verification of measuring means, metrological certification of measurement procedures by legal entities without accreditation;
5) use of measurement unit standards that have not been calibrated or verified by subjects;
6) violation of the procedure for work on accreditation, – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of ninety, on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of one hundred and ninety five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred and ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of accreditation certificate and certificate of expert-auditor for confirmation of compliance, certificate of verification officer of measuring means for the period of six months.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, – 
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred and thirty five, on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of three hundred and sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of six hundred and ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand and two hundred monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of accreditation certificate and certificate of expert-auditor for confirmation of compliance, certificate of verification officer o measuring means.
Footnote. Chapter 24 is supplemented by

Section 985. Original section/article: 415-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 986. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation in the field of safety ensuring of separate types of products
Failure to terminate the implementation of life cycle processes of the products by the subject from the date of detection of non-conformity to the safety requirements established by the legislative acts on food safety, chemical products, machines and equipment, toys and technical regulations, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred sixty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the activity or without such with confiscation of the products or without such.
Note. As applied to this Article, the subjects shall be regarded as the persons being liable for safety of products in accordance with the legislative acts on food safety, chemical products, machines and equipment, tools.

Section 987. Original section/article: 417. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the procedure for determining the country of origin of goods
1. Drawing up expert acts of expertise on the origin of goods by expert auditors for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods, and issuing expert acts of expertise on the origin of goods by an expert organisation in breach of the rules for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods –
shall entail a fine on expert auditors for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices with suspension of expert auditors' certificates for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods for a period of six months, and on expert organisations - in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with suspension of activities for a period of up to three months.
2. Refusal to issue a certificate of origin of goods in the case of submission of a duly executed act of expertise on the origin of goods, documents confirming the origin of goods for domestic circulation, as per the list approved by the competent authority in the field of regulation of trade activities, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices on the organisation authorised to issue a certificate of origin of goods.
3. Issuance by an authorised organisation of a certificate of origin of goods in the event that the applicant fails to file documents as per the list approved by the competent authority in the field of regulation of trade activities, based on the act of expert examination of the origin of goods issued in violation of the rules for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods, incorrect determination of the criterion for determining the country of origin, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices on the organisation authorised to issue a certificate of origin of goods.
4. Submitting falsified and (or) unreliable documents confirming the origin of goods, as per the list approved by the competent authority in the field of regulation of trade activities, to obtain a certificate of origin of goods –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twelve monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, twenty monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and thirty monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
5. Acts (inaction) envisaged by parts one, two and three of this article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine on expert auditors for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices with forfeiture of the certificates of expert auditors for determining the country of origin of goods, the status of goods of the Eurasian Economic Union or foreign goods, for an organisation authorised to issue a certificate of origin of goods - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, for expert organisations - in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices, with suspension of activities for up to three months.
Footnote.

Section 988. Original section/article: 417. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 989. Original section/article: 418. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of national standards required for the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the State Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Production of the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the State Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which do not meet the requirements of the national standard shall, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty – five, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non – profit organizations – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of seventy-five, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Use (establishment, placement) of the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the State Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan with violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state symbols shall -
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of five, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 990. Original section/article: 418. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 991. Original section/article: 419. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on ensuring of the uniformity of measurements: 
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on ensuring of the uniformity of measurements committed in the form of: 
1) violation of compulsory metrological requirements for measurements, measuring means, standard samples, measurement procedures established in measurement lists related to the state regulation, and regulatory legal acts;
2) issuance in circulation, applying, of measuring means subjected to the state metrological control that did not pass testing for the purpose of type approval or metrological certification, as well as adjustment and (or) not included into the register of the state system of ensuring the uniformity of measurements;
3) applying the methods for measuring subjected to the state metrological control and that did not pass the metrological certification and registration into the register of the state system of ensuring the uniformity of measurements, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals, two hundred and thirty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, three hundred and ten monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and six hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. An action (inaction) envisaged by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of ninety monthly calculation indices for individuals, four hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, six hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities, and one thousand two hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 992. Original section/article: 419. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 993. Original section/article: 420. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to take measures for destruction of wild hemp
Failure to take measures for destruction of wild hemp on sowings of agricultural crops, in gardens, vineyards, breeding nurseries and parks, on the sidelines of the fields, irrigation and irrigation-amelioratory networks, on the waysides of the common and railway roads, in a territory of organizations, on the land fields of inhabitants of cities, rural settlements and other inhabited localities, as well as on the lands of the state forest and water funds, state reserve and secured to the organizations after prescription, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 994. Original section/article: 421. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to take measures for ensuring protection of the drug containing sowings
Failure to take measures for ensuring established regime of protection of hemp, poppy sowings and other plants containing narcotic substances, places for storage and processing of the harvests of these crops, and equally failure to take measures for destruction of the stubble remains and production wastes containing narcotic substances, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 995. Original section/article: 422. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to take measures for suppression of sale and (or) nonmedical consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors 
1. Failure to take measures for suppression of sale and (or) nonmedical consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors by the owner of entertaining establishment, as well as educational institution, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices.
Note. Entertainment establishments mentioned in this Code shall include gambling establishments, nightclubs, coffee bars, restaurants, Internet cafes, computer, billiard, bowling clubs and cinemas, objects of theater and entertaining purpose and other buildings, premises, structures in which the services of entertaining and leisure, theater and entertaining, sporting, cultural and leisure purpose are rendered.

Section 996. Original section/article: 423. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Propaganda or illegal advertising of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their analogues, precursors
Propaganda or illegal advertising of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their analogues, precursors, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with or without revocation of a license.
Note.
1. The propaganda of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors in this Article should be understood as the dissemination of any information, regardless of the form and method of their presentation on narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, precursors, on methods, methods of their development, manufacture and use, on advantages and benefits of using certain types of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their analogues, aimed at forming a positive or tolerant attitude towards illegal circulation and illegal consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, or performing other actions in an indefinite circle of people these purposes.
2. In this Article, illegal advertising of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors should be understood as distribution and (or) placement in any place, in any form, in any way, except for cases established by law, information on places or methods of their acquisition, quality, price and their other properties, intended for an indefinite circle of persons and designed to form or maintain interest in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, their analogues and to promote their illegal consumption and sale.
Footnote.

Section 997. Original section/article: 423. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 998. Original section/article: 423-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah tobacco blends, tobacco heating systems, energy drinks to persons under the age of twenty-one
Footnote. Title of

Section 999. Original section/article: 423-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2025 № 232-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. The sale of tobacco and tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, hookah tobacco, hookah tobacco blends, tobacco heating systems and energy drinks to persons under the age of twenty-one - 
shall entail a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices for natural persons, fifty for small business entities and non-profit organisations, eighty for medium-sized business entities, and two hundred for large business entities.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, –
shall result in a fine of sixty monthly calculation indices for natural persons, one hundred for small business entities and non-profit organisations, one hundred and sixty for medium-sized business entities, and four hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote. Chapter 24 was supplemented with

Section 1000. Original section/article: 423-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1001. Original section/article: 424. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal medical and (or) pharmaceutical activity
1. Engagement in illegal medical and (or) pharmaceutical activity by a person that does not have the certificate and (or) the license for this type of activity, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants –in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
2. Provision of medical care provided within the guaranteed volume of free medical care and (or) in the system of compulsory social health insurance on a paid basis in healthcare organizations providing it, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four monthly calculation indices.
3. Repeated commission of the acts provided by a part two of this Article within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with the withdrawal of the certificate of a specialist in the field of health care, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of sixty-five, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of seven hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the incomes received due to commission of the administrative infraction.
4. Conducting healing sessions involving two or more persons, including with the use of mass media-
entail a fine in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Participation of medical workers, authorized to prescript medical products in the advertising of the medical products, sale of the medical products by the medical workers at the workplace, with the exception of cases provided by the legislation, as well as appointment to the certain pharmacy organizations and the other types of organizations and the other forms of cooperation with them for the purpose of obtaining remuneration, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices with the withdrawal of the certificate of a specialist in the field of health care, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices with the withdrawal of the certificate of a specialist in the field of health care, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1002. Original section/article: 424. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1003. Original section/article: 424-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for conducting clinical trials and the use of new methods and means of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and medical rehabilitation
Violation of the procedure for conducting clinical trials and the application of new methods and means of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and medical rehabilitation by a medical worker, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the certificate of a specialist in the field of health care, or without it.
Footnote. Chapter 24 was supplemented with

Section 1004. Original section/article: 424-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1005. Original section/article: 425. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of the legislation in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of population, as well as hygienic standards
1. Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, as well as hygienic standards, technical regulations, which did not entail harm to human health, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices for individuals, one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, two hundred and ten monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities, and one thousand six hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article that entailed infliction of harm to the human health, if this action (omission) does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations - in amount of four hundred sixty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of six hundred twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices with suspension of activity or without it, with or without confiscation of products.
Footnote.

Section 1006. Original section/article: 425. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.04.2016 № 504-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1007. Original section/article: 426. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of pharmaceutical activity and scope of circulation of medicinal products and medical devices 
1. Violation of the rules for registration and reregistration, production, manufacturing and quality control, testing (research), entry, procurement, transportation, storage, marking, sale, including the excess of the established marginal prices for medicinal products, as well as applying (use), ensuring, destruction, advertising of medicinal products, medical devices, if it did not inflict harm to human health, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of seventy, on officials – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, –
shall entail suspension of the license and (or) supplement to the license for pharmaceutical activity for the period up to six months.
2-1. Violation of the rules for the import, purchase, transportation, storage of vaccines, resulting in minor harm to human health, shall –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred and thirty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
2-2. Violation of the procedure for the expertise of medicines conducted by the state expert organization in the field of circulation of medicines and medical devices in conducting the expertise of the quality and safety of vaccines, shall –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Production, procurement, transportation, storage, sale, applying (use), advertising of unregistered, prohibited for applying medicinal products, medical devices, if they did not entail infliction of harm to human health, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on officials – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the activity, with confiscation of medicinal products and the products equated to them, medicinal and prophylactic food and food supplements, as well as cosmetic units that shall be the direct subjects of commission of administrative offence and incomes obtained due to commission of the administrative offence.
4. The actions provided for by parts one, 2-1 and three of this Article, resulting in harm to human health, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on officials – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of medicinal products and medical devices, medicinal and prophylactic food and food supplements, as well as cosmetic units that shall be the direct subjects of commission of administrative offence and incomes obtained due to commission of administrative offence, as well as prohibition of activity.
Footnote.

Section 1008. Original section/article: 426. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 211-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1009. Original section/article: 427. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements of technical resistance of objects and premises in the scope of turnover of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors
1. Violation of requirements of technical resistance of objects and premises in the scope of turnover of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors, shall –
entail a fine on officials in amount of twenty-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the activity of a legal entity.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entails a fine on officials in amount of one hundred and seventy-five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship - in amount of three hundred and fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with prohibition of the activity of a legal entity.
Footnote.

Section 1010. Original section/article: 427. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1011. Original section/article: 428. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inaccurate advertising in the field of public health service
Dissemination of advertising of medical services, methods and means of preventative measures, diagnostics, treatment and medical rehabilitation by an advertiser that does not have the license for carrying out the relevant type of activity, as well as advertising of biological active food supplements without their state registration, if this action does not have the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1012. Original section/article: 429. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance of medical examination and treatment of the persons contacting with HIV infected, venereal diseases, tuberculosis, as well as the persons with mental, behavioral disorders (diseases) orthose using narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances without a doctor's prescription
Footnote. Heading of

Section 1013. Original section/article: 429. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Avoidance of medical examination and treatment of the persons contacting with HIV infected, venereal diseases, tuberculosis, which continues after written warning made by the health care institution, –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Avoidance of medical examination and treatment of persons with mental, behavioral disorders (diseases) associated with the use of psychoactive substances or for whom there is sufficient evidence that they use narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances without a doctor's prescription, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1014. Original section/article: 429. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 208-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1015. Original section/article: 430. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance from treatment of the persons with the diseases representing danger for wider public
1. Refusal from taking medical products and another avoidance from treatment of the persons with the diseases representing danger for wider public, the list of which shall be determined by the authorized authority for healthcare, as well as the persons being in contact with them and that are in need of preventive treatment, that continues after written warning made by the healthcare institution, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Avoidance of parents or the persons substituting them from treatment of minor children with the diseases representing danger for wider public, the list of which shall be determined by the authorized authority for healthcare, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1016. Original section/article: 430. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1017. Original section/article: 431. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealment of the source of infection by the persons with diseases representing danger for the wider public and the persons being in contact with them
Concealment of the source of infection by the persons with diseases representing danger for the wider public and the persons being in contact with them, creating the danger of infecting the other persons by these diseases, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1018. Original section/article: 432. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representation of knowingly false details and information upon receipt of permitting documents for engagement in medical, pharmaceutical activity
1. Representation of knowingly false details and information upon receipt of permitting documents for engagement in medical, pharmaceutical activity, including by falsification of the documents if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same act committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1019. Original section/article: 433. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation by the public health service entities on informing the authorized bodies
1. Violation by the subjects of healthcare of the obligation to provide information ( expedited report):
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
to the state body in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population - on cases of infectious diseases, poisonings that pose a danger to others; 
to the state body in the field of providing medical services (assistance) - on cases of death of pregnant women, women in childbirth, puerperas within forty-two calendar days after childbirth, sudden death of patients during the provision of planned medical care (primary health care and specialized, including high-tech health care);
to the authorized body in the field of civil protection - on the threat of occurrence and (or) the occurrence of medical and sanitary consequences of emergency situations;
to the internal affairs bodies - information about persons who applied for fresh injuries, wounds, illegal artificial termination of pregnancy, domestic violence, cases of diseases that pose a danger to others, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of five, on officials in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action (omission) committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the certificate, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1020. Original section/article: 433. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 25. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS ENCROACHING
ON PUBLIC ORDER AND MORALITY

Section 1021. Original section/article: 434. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Disorderly conduct
1. Obscene language in public places, offensive harassment of individuals and other similar actions expressing disrespect for others, violating public order and the peace of individuals -
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or community service for a term of twenty to sixty hours or administrative detention for a term of five to fifteen days.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail community service for a period of sixty to one hundred hours or administrative detention for a period of fifteen to thirty days.
3. Actions provided by a part two of this Article committed by persons in respect of whom the administrative arrest shall not be applied in accordance with a part two of

Section 1022. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
4. Desecration of buildings, other structures, residential premises, common areas, property on transport and in other public places -
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for a period of five to twenty days.
5. The action provided for in part four of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
shall entail administrative arrest for a period of twenty to thirty days.
6. The action provided for in part five of this article, committed by persons to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 1023. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is not applied, -
entails a fine in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1024. Original section/article: 434. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force on 01.09.2025).

Section 1025. Original section/article: 434-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of behavior on sports and sports-mass, entertainment cultural and mass events by individuals
1. Violation of the rules of behavior on sports and sports-mass, entertainment cultural and mass events by individuals in the form of:
1) carrying into the places of sports and sports-mass, entertainment cultural and mass events of alcoholic products, products in metal, glass containers, pyrotechnic products and other items, the use of which may pose a threat to life and health of people or cause material damage to individuals and legal entities;
2) the use of posters, emblems, banners and other visual objects aimed at inciting social, racial, national, religious, class and clan hatred, as well as infringing the rights of individuals during sports and sports-mass, entertainment cultural and mass events, if these actions do not contain any signs of a criminally punished act, shall -
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by part one this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 25 is supplemented by

Section 1026. Original section/article: 434-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.01.2016 № 446-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1027. Original section/article: 434-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Contamination of common areas
1. Contamination of common areas, parks, squares, including the release of municipal waste in unidentified places, shall - 
entail a fine of ten monthly calculation indices or community service for a period of forty hours.
2. Actions provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
shall entail a fine of twenty monthly calculation indices or community service for a period of eighty hours.
Footnote. Chapter 25 is supplemented by

Section 1028. Original section/article: 434-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.09.2025).

Section 1029. Original section/article: 434-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding the wearing in public places of items of clothing that prevent the identification of a person 
1. Breach of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding the wearing in public places of items of clothing that prevent facial recognition, unless this is necessary to meet the requirements of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, official (professional, employment) duties, for medical purposes, civil defence, due to weather conditions, as well as for persons directly participating in sporting, mass sporting and mass cultural events shall result in a warning.
2. Any act described in part one of this article, committed again within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty shall result in a fine of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 24 has been supplemented with

Section 1030. Original section/article: 434-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law № 247-VIII of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective on 01.01.2027).

Section 1031. Original section/article: 435. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Hooliganism committed by a minor
Disorderly conduct or hooliganism provided by a part one of

Section 1032. Original section/article: 293. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan committed by a minor at the age from fourteen to sixteen, shall –
entail a fine on parents or the persons substituting them in amount of seven monthly calculation indices.

Section 1033. Original section/article: 436. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The use of pyrotechnic products in settlements 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1034. Original section/article: 436. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137–VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
2. Use of pyrotechnic products in inhabited localities and in places not designated for this purpose, violating the peace of individuals, the established order and not causing major material damage, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices with confiscation of pyrotechnic products.
3. An action provided for in part two of this Article committed by a minor under the age of sixteen, –
entails a warning or a fine for parents or persons replacing them in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices with confiscation of pyrotechnic products.
4. The action provided for in part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, as well as by a person who was brought to administrative responsibility for an offense provided for in

Section 1035. Original section/article: 437. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code during the year,
entails a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with confiscation of pyrotechnic products.
Footnote.

Section 1036. Original section/article: 436. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1037. Original section/article: 437. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of silence
1. Violation of silence from 22 to 9 in the morning, as well as performance of the works in residential premises and outside them with a noise not linked with urgent necessity, impeding the normal rest and calm of the individuals, as well as the violation of silence by entertainment facilities located in residential buildings and in residential areas, from 22 to 9 in the morning on weekdays, from 23 to 10 in the morning on weekends and holidays, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1038. Original section/article: 437. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1039. Original section/article: 438. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Knowingly false call of special services
1. Knowingly false call of the bodies of the state fire-fighting service, police, ambulance service, emergency services, shall –
entail a fine on natural persons in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction or committed during the period of liquidation of the accidents, fires, consequences of natural disasters, shall –
entail a fine on natural persons in the amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or community service for a period of forty hours.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed by the minors at the age from fourteen to sixteen years, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for parents or persons in loco parentis.
Footnote.

Section 1040. Original section/article: 438. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with amendments introduced by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see

Section 1041. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law for the procedure of implementation).

Section 1042. Original section/article: 439. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Knowingly false information of a fact of corruption
1. Reporting of knowingly false information of a fact of corruption to the body, fighting against corruption, shall
entails a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall-
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1043. Original section/article: 439. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1044. Original section/article: 440. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Drinking alcoholic beverages or appearance in public places in a state of intoxication
1. Drinking alcoholic beverages in the streets and in other public places, except for trade and public catering organizations, in which the sale of alcoholic beverages on tap shall be permitted by the local executive authority, or appearance in public places in a state of intoxication that offends human dignity and public morality, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Appearance in public places in a state of intoxication of persons under eighteen years of age, as well as their drinking of alcoholic beverages, shall –
entail a fine for parents or persons replacing them, in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices or administrative detention for up to five days or community service for up to twenty hours.
Footnote.

Section 1045. Original section/article: 440. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.09.2025).

Section 1046. Original section/article: 440-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-medical consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, as well as potent substances
1. Non-medical consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, as well as potent substances, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, – 
shall entail a fine for an individual in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices or administrative detention for a period of ten days.
2. An act envisaged by paragraph one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices or administrative detention for a period of twenty days for a natural person.
Footnote. Chapter 25 is supplemented by

Section 1047. Original section/article: 440-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
under Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1048. Original section/article: 441. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the prohibition of consuming of tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, at places where it is established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1049. Original section/article: 441. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Consumption of tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, in places where prohibition is established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, except as provided in part 1-2 of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
1-2. Consumption of tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, on board the aircraft shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure by the employer to take measures against persons consuming tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, in special places not designated for this, shall –
entail a fine on officials, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizationsin the amount of twenty-five, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of forty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1050. Original section/article: 441. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2015 № 299-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication): dated 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.04.2019 № 249-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1051. Original section/article: 441-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the prohibition of consuming of tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, in a motor vehicle while minors are in them
1. Consumption of tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, tobacco heating systems, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, in a motor vehicle while minors are in them, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 25 was supplemented with

Section 1052. Original section/article: 441-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1053. Original section/article: 442. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Appearance of minors in entertaining premises or outside dwelling place at night time without accompanying of legal representatives
Footnote. Title of

Section 1054. Original section/article: 442. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Appearance of minors in entertaining premises at night time without accompanying of legal representatives from 22 to 6 hours, shall –
entail a fine on legal representatives in amount of three monthly calculation indices.
2. Appearance of minors without accompanying of legal representatives outside a dwelling place from 23 to 6 hours, shall –
entail a notification on legal representatives.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal representatives in amount of seven monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1055. Original section/article: 442. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1056. Original section/article: 443. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Insubordination to legal requirement of the person that takes participation in ensuring public order
1. Insubordination to legal requirement of the person that takes participation in ensuring public order, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices or community service for a term of up to twenty hours or administrative detention for up to five days.
Footnote.

Section 1057. Original section/article: 443. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.09.2025).

Section 1058. Original section/article: 443-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreigners and stateless persons from mandatory fingerprint and (or) genomic registration
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.122023 № 50-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).
2. Refusal of foreigners or stateless persons from mandatory dactyloscopic registration shall –
entail administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Refusal of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreigners or stateless persons from mandatory genomic registration shall –
entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. The Code is amended with

Section 1059. Original section/article: 443-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2016 № 41-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 23.12.2023 № 50-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 1060. Original section/article: 444. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Participation, involvement or access to gambling games
1. Participation in gambling games (for money, things and other values) at the places not allocated for that, and equally takings stacks for sport and other competitions by the persons that do not have the special permission, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of playing accessories, money, things and other values.
2. The involvement of persons under the age of twenty-one, persons subject to restrictions on participation in gambling and/or betting, and persons with outstanding obligations under enforcement documents relating to the recovery of property, included in the Unified Register of Debtors by the competent authority in charge for implementing state policy and state regulation of activities in the field of ensuring the enforcement of enforcement documents, as well as persons sentenced to a custodial sentence or given a suspended sentence, from engaging in gambling and/or betting for money, goods or other valuables shall 
entail a fine on natural persons amounting to two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Admission of persons under the age of twenty-one, persons subject to restrictions on participation in gambling and/or betting, persons with outstanding obligations under enforcement documents concerning property seizures, included by the competent authority exercising state policy and state regulation of activities in the sphere of ensuring the enforcement of enforcement documents, in the Unified Register of Debtors, as well as persons sentenced to a restriction of liberty or given a suspended sentence, from participating in gambling and/or betting for money, goods and other valuables –
shall be subject to a fine of three hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and one thousand monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
4. Admission to the organization and conduct of gambling and (or) betting of persons on the list of persons restricted in participation in gambling and (or) betting -
entails a fine for medium-sized businesses in the amount of three hundred, and for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
5. The actions provided for in parts three and four of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, shall entail suspension of the license.
Footnote.

Section 1061. Original section/article: 444. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective on 01.01.2027).

Section 1062. Original section/article: 445. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gambling business
1. Paragraph 1 enters into force upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V.
2. Betting, taking (registration) of stacks, payment of winnings outside gambling premises (totalizator counters or bookmaker's offices) or organization and conduct of the gambling games and (or) betting providing taking of the stacks and (or) giving of the winning in the form of one property, except for the money by the organizer of gambling business, with the exception of the case established by the Law, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license validity term.
3. Non-compliance with the requirements of a percentage of the winning technologically built into a game machine, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the incomes received due to commission of the administrative infraction, and suspension of the license validity term.
4. Non-fulfillment of the conditions on formation, use, ensuring of placing the compulsory reserves on a permanent basis by an organizer of gambling business in the manner and on conditions determined by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the license validity term.
5. Installation of game machines or their parts in walls, window and door apertures in a casino and hall of game machines, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the license validity term.
6. Non-compliance with the requirements on equipping the pay offices and playing places of gambling premises by video recording systems by an organizer of the gambling business or violation of the terms for storage of recorded information or conditions of recording, or non-fulfillment of the obligation to establish the equipment for organization and conduct of betting, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the license validity term.
6-1. Failure by the organizer of the gambling business to comply with the requirements for posting warnings about the risks and harm of participation in gambling and (or) betting in gambling establishments, bookmaker's office or totalizator premises, casino and slot machine hall cash desks, totalizator or bookmaker's office cash desks and electronic cash desks, on its own Internet resources – 
shall entail a fine for medium-sized businesses in the amount of three hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the license.
7. Paragraph 7 enters into force upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V.
8. Use of game machines by an organizer of gambling business with the violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of technical regulation, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the license validity term.
9. Paragraph 9 enters into force upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V.
10. Paragraph 10 enters into force upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V.
10-1. Failure by a gambling operator running a bookmaking or totalisator business to integrate its hardware and software systems with the central accounting system, or withdrawal from a previously implemented integration –
shall result in a fine of three hundred monthly calculation indices for middle-sized business entities and one thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities, with the licence being suspended.
10-2. Failure by a gambling operator running a bookmaking or betting pool business to observe the prohibition on accepting bets and paying out winnings without recording them in the central accounting system –
shall entail a fine of three hundred monthly calculation indices for middle-sized business entities and one thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities, with the licence being suspended.
11. Actions (or inaction) covered by parts one, two, four, five, six, six-one, seven, nine, ten, ten-one and ten-two of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the license.
12. Acts provided by parts three and eight of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of incomes received due to commission of the administrative infraction, and deprivation of the license.
Footnote.

Section 1063. Original section/article: 445. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V (order of enforcement see

Section 1064. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1065. Original section/article: 445-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on lotteries and lottery activity
1. Failure of a lottery operator to comply with the requirements for publication in periodicals distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or posting on the lottery operator's Internet resource the results of each draw and winnings on lottery tickets, electronic lottery tickets of the draw lottery, as well as violation of the terms of publication or posting -
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of activity.
2. Non-fulfillment of the requirements for sending a copy of the approved lottery conditions to the authorized body in the sphere of lottery and lottery activity and placement of the conditions of the lottery on its Internet resource, as well as violation of terms of direction and placement shall -
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of activity.
3. Violation by a lottery operator of the requirements for the collection, formation, storage and accounting of information on distributed lottery tickets, electronic lottery tickets, proceeds from sold lottery tickets, electronic lottery tickets, paid winnings, as well as failure to provide it, untimely provision or provision of inaccurate information to the authorized body in the field of lottery and lottery activities -
entail a fine on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship in the amount of five hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of activities.
4. Violation of the requirements for formation of the prize fund by a lottery operator shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in the amount of five hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indicators, with suspension of activity.
5. Actions provided by parts one, two, three and four of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposing an administrative penalty, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of medium entrepreneurship in amount of one thousand, on subjects of large entrepreneurship - in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with prohibition of activity.
6. Conducting a lottery by a person, who is not a lottery operator, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of three hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
7. Action provided for by part six of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of seven hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one thousand, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the incomes received due to commission of the administrative infraction.
Footnote. Chapter 25 is supplemented by

Section 1066. Original section/article: 445-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 496-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 343-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1067. Original section/article: 446. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Advertising of the products of erotic content
Sale, distribution or advertising of the products of erotic content at the places not allocated for these purposes, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of the products of erotic content.

Section 1068. Original section/article: 447. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for protection and use of the monuments of history and culture
Violation of the rules for protection and use of the monuments of history and culture protected by the state, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1069. Original section/article: 448. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Vandalism of minors
Vandalism, that is, the desecration of objects of historical and cultural heritage, historical and cultural monuments, natural objects protected by the state, inscriptions or drawings, or other actions insulting public morality committed by minors under the age of sixteen, -
entails a fine for parents or persons replacing them in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1070. Original section/article: 448. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1071. Original section/article: 449. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Harassment in public places
1. Solicitation, i.e. persistent approach in public places for the purpose of buying, selling, exchanging or acquiring things in another way, committed by a person who is not a business entity, as well as for the purpose of fortune telling, begging, prostitution, providing other services of a sexual nature or imposing other services, -
entail a notification or a fine on individuals in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices or community service for a term of up to twenty hours or administrative detention for a term of up to five days.
3. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed a foreign person or stateless person, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest up to five days or administrative expulsion outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1072. Original section/article: 449. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced on 01.09.2025).

Section 1073. Original section/article: 450. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Providing premises knowingly for prostitution, rendering other sexual services or pimping 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1074. Original section/article: 450. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Providing premises knowingly for prostitution, rendering other sexual services or pimping -
subject to fine physical and officials at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators, on small business entities – at a rate of hundred fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of three hundred, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators, with suspension of their activity or separate kinds of activity for a period of up to three months.
2. The same action committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to finephysical and officials at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators, on small business entities – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of four hundred, on subjects of large business – of two thousand monthly settlement indicators, with prohibition of their activity or separate kinds of activity for a period of up to three years with confiscation of the income received owing to commission of administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 1075. Original section/article: 450. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 26. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD
OF PRINT AND INFORMATION

Section 1076. Original section/article: 451. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breaching of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in mass media 
1. Distribution of mass media products without registration or after a decision to suspend, terminate its release (broadcast) or deem the registration certificate invalid –
shall be punishable by a fine for officials in the amount of ten, for small businesses - in the amount of twenty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of the media products.
2.Production, manufacture, replication and (or) distribution of mass media products without re-registration in cases of change of owner or change of its name, title, language, territory of distribution, main thematic focus and frequency of issue, as well as change of the organizational and legal form of a TV or radio channel – 
shall be punishable by a fine on officials in the amount of forty, on small businesses - in the amount of one hundred, on medium-sized businesses - in the amount of two hundred, on large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with suspension of the publication (broadcast) of a media outlet for up to three months.
3. Actions envisaged by part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail prohibition of the release (broadcasting) 
shall entail a ban on the media outlet release (airing).
4. Distribution in violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in mass media of personal and biometric data, other information enabling identification of a minor wronged by unlawful actions (inaction), as well as a suspect and (or) accused of committing an administrative and (or) criminal offense, with the exception of minors found guilty by the court of committing grave and (or) especially grave crimes, including information about their parents and other legal representatives, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of twenty-five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. The action stipulated by part four of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for individuals and officials, small businesses or non-profit organizations in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in mass media by television and radio companies, committed in the form of:
1) distribution by domestic television and radio channels of less than the established percentage of domestic television and radio programs;
2) distribution of news-related television programs on a television channel without providing sign language interpretation or translation in the form of subtitles;
3) dissemination on a television channel of additional information that is of commercial advertising nature, exceeding twenty-five percent of the frame area and violating the text or information material in television programs;
4) failure to ensure the quality of presentation of television and radio programs by television and radio channels in accordance with the rules for connecting technical means of television and radio broadcasting to the networks of television and radio broadcasting operators, technical operation of television and radio broadcasting systems and requirements of the national television and radio broadcasting standards, as well as technical parameters of the quality of television and radio broadcasting, –
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. Acts stipulated by part six of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of one hundred, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of two hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Distribution of the volume of television and radio programs in the state language from the total volume of television and radio programs in time intervals of six hours each, calculated from zero hours of local time, less than established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on mass media, –
shall entail a warning or a fine for officials in the amount of ten, for small businesses - twenty, for medium-sized businesses - fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
9. The action stipulated in part eight of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine on officials in the amount of fifty, on small businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, on medium-sized businesses - two hundred and fifty, on large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices, with deprivation of the license to operate the organization of television and (or) radio broadcasting and suspension of publication (broadcasting) of the mass media for up to three months.
10. Retransmission in a weekly volume by domestic television and radio channels of television and radio programs of foreign television and radio channels, exceeding ten percent of the total volume of television and radio programs, –
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for legal entities - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. The action provided for in part ten of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine on officials in the amount of one hundred, on legal entities in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
12. Breaching of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in mass media by television and radio broadcasting operators, committed in the form of:
1) non-distribution by television and radio broadcasting operators of mandatory television and radio channels;
2) breaching by television and radio broadcasting operators of the conditions for retransmission of television and radio channels, –
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
13. Acts stipulated for in part twelve of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, – 
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of one hundred, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of two hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
14. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in mass media by television and radio companies and television and radio broadcasting operators, committed in the form of:
1) organizing a collective reception system that pursues no commercial purpose, without a written consent of the owners of the building and (or) buildings;
2) untimely propagation by television and radio broadcasting operators and television and radio companies of a warning signal to the population about a threat to life, to people’s health and the procedure to be followed in the current situation in natural and man-made emergencies, as well as in the interests of defense, national security and protection of law and order;
3) use of technical means of television and radio broadcasting that have not undergone conformity assessment procedure;
4) creating interference with radio transmitting and (or) radio receiving communications through individual ground-based satellite receiving devices;
5) distribution by television and radio broadcasting operators of television and radio channels that were not registered, re-registered with the authorized body, –
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of fifty, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices.
15. Acts stipulated in part fourteen of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine for officials in the amount of one hundred, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of two hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
16. Distribution of conditional access cards to the services of television and radio broadcasting operators and equipment intended for individual reception of television and radio signals of television and radio broadcasting operators that do not have a license in the field of television and radio broadcasting and do not have their own satellite broadcasting systems in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for small business entities - in the amount of twenty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of thirty, for large business entities - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices. 
17. The action provided for in part sixteen of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for small business entities - in the amount of forty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of sixty, for large business entities - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of conditional access cards and equipment that were the direct objects of the administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 1077. Original section/article: 451. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force on 01.10.2024).

Section 1078. Original section/article: 452. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on television and radio broadcasting 
Footnote.

Section 1079. Original section/article: 452. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1080. Original section/article: 453. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Manufacturing, storage, importation, transportation, distribution in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of mass media products, as well as other products 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1081. Original section/article: 453. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (shall be brought into force upon the expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Manufacturing, storage, importation, transportation in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of mass media products containing information and materials aimed at promoting or agitating a violent change in the constitutional system, violating the integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, undermining the security of the state, war, inciting social, racial, national , religious, class and clan strife, the cult of cruelty, violence and pornography, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for officials - in the amount of twenty-five, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices , with confiscation of media products.
2. Distribution in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of mass media products containing information and materials aimed at promoting or agitating a violent change in the constitutional system, violating the integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, undermining the security of the state, war, inciting social, racial, national, religious, class and clan strife, propaganda and justification of extremism or terrorism, as well as disclosing technical methods and tactics of anti-terrorist operations during their conduct, if these actions do not contain signs of criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for officials - in the amount of twenty-five, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices , with confiscation of media products.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of one hundred, for officials - in the amount of one hundred and fifty, for small businesses or non-profit organizations - in the amount of two hundred, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of three hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculated indicators, with confiscation of mass media products, deprivation of the license to organize television programs and (or) radio broadcasting and prohibition of the activity of a legal entity.
4. Manufacturing, storage, importation, transportation, distribution in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of other products unrelated to mass media, containing information and materials aimed at propaganda or agitation of violent change of the constitutional system, violation of the integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, undermining the security of the state, war, incitement of social, racial, national, religious, class and clan strife, the cult of cruelty, violence and pornography, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminal offense, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on civil servants – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the media products.
5. Actions provided by parts three and four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on civil servants – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of three hundred fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of the licence for the activity on organizing the television and (or) radio broadcasting and prohibition of the activity of a legal entity.
Footnote.

Section 1082. Original section/article: 453. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1083. Original section/article: 454. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for representing free samples of periodical printed publications, fixation, storage of the materials of television and radio programs
1. Non-representation of compulsory free samples of periodical printed publications, as well as fixation and storage of the materials of television and radio programs, shall –
subjest to prevention.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1084. Original section/article: 454. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication).

Section 1085. Original section/article: 455. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on advertising 
1. Production, dissemination, placement and use of advertising of the goods (works and services) prohibited to advertising by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of sixty, on officials – in the amount of eighty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred and twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred and seventy, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Distribution and (or) placement of advertising of bookmakers or totalizators that does not comply with the provisions of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on advertising - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of sixty, for officials - in the amount of eighty, for small business entities or non-profit organizations - in the amount of one hundred and twenty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and seventy, for large businesses - in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on advertising, committed in the form of:
1) unethical and hidden advertising, with the exception of cases provided by

Section 1086. Original section/article: 163. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) unethical and hidden advertising;
3) advertisements in the days of national mourning on television and radio channels;
4) advertising in the form of various events, including prize draws, lotteries aimed at stimulating demand and interest in alcoholic products, tobacco and tobacco products, including products with heated tobacco, hookah tobacco, hookah mixture, systems for heating tobacco, electronic consumption systems and liquids for them, shall;
5) interruptions by advertising, including by running line, broadcasting official messages, speeches of presidential candidate of the Republic of Kazakhstan and deputies of representative agencies, educational and religious television programs, as well as demonstrations of children's television programs, with the exception of advertising for children and teenagers;
6) interruption by advertising of film projection in motion picture and video services, with the exception of series breaks;
7) placement of outdoor (visual) advertising on historical and cultural monuments and in their protection zones, on religious buildings (structures) and on the territory allotted to them and their fences, as well as on specially protected natural territories; 
8) advertising of a residential building (residential building) under construction or commissioned that shall not comply with the classification of residential buildings (residential buildings) in the approved project documentation;
9) advertisements of religious associations and spiritual (religious) educational organizations not registered in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – 
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty пяти, on officials – in the amount of seventy, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the requirements established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the of dissemination of advertising, –
shall entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on officials – in amount of seventy, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The action envisaged by part three of this Article, committed with the use of mass media,-
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred, on officials – in the amount of one hundred двадцати, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of one hundred seventy, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Actions provided for in parts one, 1-1, two, three and four of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of one hundred seventy, on officials – in the amount of two hundred, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of two hundred fifty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of three hundred fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of шестьсот fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1087. Original section/article: 455. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 215-VІ dated 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1088. Original section/article: 456. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for announcing output information
1. Issue of the periodic printing edition, distribution of messages and materials of news agency or online media without the established output data, broadcast TV, radio channels without announcement of the name, and it is equal with not clear or obviously false output data -
subjest to prevention.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1089. Original section/article: 456. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Laws of the Repub;ic of Kazakhstan from 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication).

Section 1090. Original section/article: 456-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal restriction of the right for access to information
1. Illegal refusal in providing information or granting obviously false information in cases when such information is subject to granting at the request of the user of information according to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, except for actions, responsibility for which is provided by other articles of the present Code, –
subject to fine s officials, small business entities, non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
3. Illegal reference of information which isn't information with limited access to information with limited access, except for the actions provided by a part of the third

Section 1091. Original section/article: 504. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code –
subject to fine subject to fine to officials at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators. 
4. The acts provided for in part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 26 is supplemented with

Section 1092. Original section/article: 456-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 16.11.2015 № 404-V (shall be enforced after ten days of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.07.2023 № 20–VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1093. Original section/article: 456-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Posting and spreading false information and unlawful content 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1094. Original section/article: 456-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of December 30, 2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Posting, distribution of false information in mass media, on the Internet resource of the information holder, on the Internet portal of open data or by other means envisaged by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
entails a fine for officials, small business entities, non-profit organizations – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses – in the amount of fifty, for large business entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entail a fine for officials, small business entities, non–profit organizations – in the amount of fifty, for medium–sized businesses – in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Posting and dissemination of false information by users of online platforms that creates conditions for violating public order, the rights and legitimate interests of citizens or organizations, or the legally protected interests of society or the state, if these actions do not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine for individuals – in the amount of twenty, for small businesses, non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of fifty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3-1. Posting and spreading illegal content, as long as these actions do not constitute a criminal offence, –
shall be punishable by a fine of twenty times the monthly calculation index.
4. The actions provided for in part three of this Article committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entail a fine for individuals – in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for up to ten days, for small businesses, non–profit organizations – in the amount of fifty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
5. Actions provided for in part three of this Article committed by influencers (bloggers), –
entail a fine for individuals – in the amount of thirty, for small businesses, non–profit organizations – in the amount of forty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of eighty, for large businesses - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
6. The actions provided for in part five of this Article committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entail a fine for individuals – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for up to fifteen days, for small businesses, non–profit organizations – in the amount of sixty, for medium–sized businesses - in the amount of one hundred and twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
7. Any actions covered by part 3-1 of this article that are committed again within one year of an administrative penalty being imposed shall result in a fine of forty monthly calculation indices or administrative detention for up to ten days.
Note: For the purposes of part five of this article, an influencer (blogger) is a user of an online platform who publishes information on online platforms addressed to an indefinite group of persons for the purposes of entrepreneurial activity.
Footnote. Chapter 26 is supplemented by

Section 1095. Original section/article: 456-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1096. Original section/article: 456-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Engaging in professional journalistic activities by foreign media organisations and foreign journalists without the appropriate accreditation within the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Engaging in professional journalistic activities by foreign media organisations and foreign journalists without the appropriate accreditation within the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall result in a warning or a fine of twenty monthly calculation indices for natural persons, and fifty monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
2. Committing an act under part one of this article that creates conditions conducive to a breach of public order, or committing such an act during a state of emergency or martial law, or in the context of natural, man-made or social emergencies, or committing such an act again within one year of an administrative penalty being imposed –
shall be punishable for natural persons by a fine of forty monthly calculation indices, or administrative detention for up to ten days, or administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan; for legal entities – by a fine of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 26 has been supplemented with

Section 1097. Original section/article: 456-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.11.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 27. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS ENCROACHING ON
ESTABLISHED CONTROL PROCEDURE

Section 1098. Original section/article: 457. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issues of the state registration of regulatory legal acts
1. Non-representation of a regulatory legal act by a civil servant for the state registration, subjected to such registration in the manner and in terms established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Application of a regulatory legal act by a civil servant that ceased to be in force in established manner, recognized by the court as invalid, officially unpublished in the established manner, not entered into force, or the validation of which is suspended by the authorized body, as well as that did not pass the state registration in the bodies of justice, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Actions provided by parts one or two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1099. Original section/article: 458. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for use the National Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan, National Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as use and performance of the National Anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal use the National Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan, National Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their images, as well as use and performance of the National Anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
subject to fine a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Non-use of the state symbols in the cases when their use is compulsory, shall –
subject to fine officials at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
3. Acts provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1100. Original section/article: 458. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten days of its first official publication).

Section 1101. Original section/article: 459. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for the following official publication of the texts of regulatory legal acts
Footnote.

Section 1102. Original section/article: 459. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1103. Original section/article: 460. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a term of documents for the state registration of the rights for real estate
Footnote.

Section 1104. Original section/article: 460. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
was excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.01.2021 № 412-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1105. Original section/article: 460-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of submission of data on receiving money and (or) other property from the foreign states, the international and foreign organizations, foreigners, persons without citizenship or their expenditure
1. Non-notification in terms and the cases provided by the tax law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, bodies of state revenues about receiving money and (or) other property of the foreign states, the international and foreign organizations, foreigners, persons without citizenship and also non-presentation or untimely submission of data on their receiving and expenditure –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of three hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Submission of the doubtful or obviously false data specified in part one of the present article –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of hundred, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of four hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of seven hundred monthly settlement indicators with suspension of operations.
3. The actions (inaction) provided by parts of the first and second present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty – 
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of hundred fifty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of two hundred fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of four hundred fifty, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators with activity prohibition.
Footnote. The code is supplemented with

Section 1106. Original section/article: 460-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced after two months of its first official publication).

Section 1107. Original section/article: 460-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of the publication, distribution and (or) placement of materials by the persons receiving money and (or) other property from the foreign states, the international and foreign organizations, foreigners, persons without citizenship
1. The publication, distribution or placement of materials on the basis of the signed contracts on rendering the services, performance of work with the foreign states, the international and foreign organizations, foreigners and persons without citizenship which aren't containing the information about the persons who have made the order and from what means are paid the publication, distribution and (or) placement of this publication –
subject to prevention.
2. The actions (inaction) provided by part one of the present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, - 
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. The code is supplemented with

Section 1108. Original section/article: 460-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced after two months of its first official publication).

Section 1109. Original section/article: 461. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the protective order 
1. Violation of the protective order issued by the internal affairs body –
entails administrative arrest for ten days.
1-1. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails administrative arrest for a period of twenty days.
2. The action provided for in parts one and 1-1 of this article, committed by persons to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 1110. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code does not apply, –
entails a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1111. Original section/article: 461. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1112. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding to civil servants of the state inspections and bodies of state control and supervision in performing their official duties, failure to perform the regulations, prescriptions and other requirements
1. Impeding to civil servants of the state inspections and bodies of state control and supervision in performing their official duties in accordance with their competence being expressed in a refusal to represent necessary documents, materials, statistical (with the exception of the primary statistics) and other details, information on the activity, on incomes, on equipping by instruments for metering the energy resources, volume of consumption and losses of energy resources, water, on calculation and payment of insurance contributions, on use of nuclear energy, in a refusal of access for conducting the revisions, inspection, inventory, examination under the regulation of the authorized body and other actions provided by the legislation, or in creation of another obstacle in their carrying out, or provision of inaccurate information, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of seven, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-performance or inadequate implementation of legal requirements or instructions, representations, the resolutions issued by bodies of the state control and supervision (officials), officials of public authorities within their competence except for the cases provided by articles 162 and 227 of the present Code – 
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five, on officials – at a rate of fifteen, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of five hundred monthly settlement indicators, with suspension of action of permission either without that or with suspension of operations or separate kinds of activity or without that.
4. Non-representation or untimely presentation of the information by inspected subjects on measures that will be taken to eliminate the violations detected by the bodies of control and supervision, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
5. Break of stamp (seal) imposed by a civil servant of the authorized body, with the exception of the cases provided by a part two of

Section 1113. Original section/article: 626. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Notes.
1. The natural person, except for subjects of financial monitoring, isn't subject to administrative prosecution according to parts of the first and second present article for refusal of providing necessary documents, materials statistical (except for primary statistical data) and other data, information on equipment metering devices of energy resources, waters.
2. The legal entity, except for subjects of financial monitoring, the state enterprises, the limited liability companies, joint-stock companies, including national managing directors of holdings, national holdings, the national companies, the participant or the shareholder of which is the state and also the affiliated, dependent and other legal entities which are affiliirovanny with them isn't subject to administrative prosecution according to parts of the first and second present article for refusal of providing necessary documents, materials statistical (except for primary statistical data) and other data, information on equipment metering devices of energy resources, waters, volumes of consumption and losses of energy resources, waters in case such person consumes energy resources in volume, equivalent less than one thousand five hundred tons of conditional fuel a year.
Footnote.

Section 1114. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 02.08.2015 № 343-V (shall be enforced after six months after the day of its first official publication); from 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127 – VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first publication).

Section 1115. Original section/article: 463. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Engagement in entrepreneurial or another activity, as well as carrying out of the actions (operations) without the relevant registration, permission or filing of notification
1. Engagement in entrepreneurial or another activity, as well as carrying out of the actions (operations) without the relevant registration, permission, and equally non-filing of a notification in the cases when the registration, permission, filing of the notification are compulsory, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices for individuals, twenty-five monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-commercial organisations, forty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large businesses, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with or without confiscation of objects and (or) instruments of administrative offences, and engaging in entrepreneurial or other activities without a licence shall additionally entail confiscation of income (dividends), money, securities obtained as a result of an administrative offence.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a penalty in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for individuals, fifty monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-commercial organisations, eighty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with confiscation of objects and (or) instruments of committing an administrative offence, and engaging in entrepreneurial or other activities without a licence shall additionally entail confiscation of income (dividends), money, securities obtained as a result of an administrative offence.
Note. Responsibility under this Article shall not apply to the notification on made currency operations and accounting registration of currency contracts carried out in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On currency regulation and currency control” as well as the notifications carried out in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On natural monopolies".
Footnote.

Section 1116. Original section/article: 463. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with changes, brought by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1117. Original section/article: 464. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breaking licensing rules or authorisation procedures
Footnote. Title of

Section 1118. Original section/article: 464. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2025 № 232-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Breach of the licensing rules or authorisation procedures established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including failure to meet authorisation requirements, –
shall result in a fine of fifteen for natural persons, forty-five for public officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, eighty for medium-sized business entities, and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices, with or without the suspension of the licence or second-category authorisation.
2. The provision by the applicant of information known to be false when applying for a second-category licence or permit, as well as the acts (or omissions) described in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of the imposition of an administrative penalty, as well as failure to rectify breaches of qualification or licensing requirements that led to administrative proceedings, following the expiry of the period during which the licence or second-category permit has been suspended –
shall result in a fine of forty for natural persons, one hundred for small business entities or non-profit organisations, one hundred and fifty for medium-sized business entities, and for large business entities and branches of banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance (reinsurance) organisations that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, branches of insurance brokers that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan – in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices, with or without the revocation of their second-category licence or authorisation.
Footnote.

Section 1119. Original section/article: 464. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 17.11.2025 № 232-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1120. Original section/article: 465. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure and terms for issuance of permission
1. Violation of the terms for issuance of permission, shall –
subject to fine officials at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Issuance of a permit in contravention of the procedure established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permits and notifications, as well as unjustified refusal to issue a permit, if such actions did not entail unlawful interference in the activities of private business entities and (or) committing actions (inaction) that hinder lawful entrepreneurial activities, –
subject to fine officials at a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators. 
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine officials at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1121. Original section/article: 465. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1122. Original section/article: 465-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on self-regulation by a self-regulating organization
1. Violation of requrements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on self-regulation by a self-regulating organization committed in kind of:
1) mixing the funds of the compensation fund with other funds of the self- regulating organization;
2) the absence of a body for the consideration of consumer disputes arising between members (participants) of a self-regulating organization, consumers and other persons in the field of consumer protection, shall –
entail a warning.
2. The actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 27 was supplemented with

Section 1123. Original section/article: 465-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1124. Original section/article: 466. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state registration of legal entities and record registration of branches and representatives
1. Carrying out of the activity without reregistration of a legal entity, its branches and representatives in the cases provided by the legislation, shall –
entail a warning.
1-1. An action envisaged by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, twenty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and forty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Untimely notification of a registering body on change of location of a legal entity, shall –
shall entail a warning.
3. An action specified in part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after imposition of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, ten monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and thirty monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
Footnote.

Section 1125. Original section/article: 466. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1126. Original section/article: 467. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-return of a license and (or) license addendum to a licenser
Footnote.

Section 1127. Original section/article: 467. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication).

Section 1128. Original section/article: 468. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the national registers of identification numbers
1. Divulgence of the details contained in the national registers of identification numbers that are not subjected to divulgence, and equally non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligations established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the national registers of identification numbers, committed:
by the authorized body in the form of:
1) non-formation of the identification number within one business date from the date of reference of the registering bodies;
2) non-representation of information to the registering state bodies and other state institutions no later than two business days from the date of their references;
by the registering body in the form of:
1) untimely representation of details to the authorized body for formation of the identification number within one business day from the date of receipt of such details;
2) non-representation of details to the authorized body for replenishment and maintenance of the actual data status of informational systems of the national registers of identification numbers within one business day from the date of receipt of such details;
3) non-representation of details to the authorized body for exclusion or conditional exclusion of the identification numbers from the national registers of identification numbers within one business day from the date of receipt of such details;
by the state bodies and other state institutions in the form of:
1) non-representation of details established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the authorized body for replenishment and maintenance of the actual data status of informational systems of the national registers of identification numbers within one business day from the date of receipt of such details;
2) non-representation of details to the authorized body for exclusion or conditional exclusion of the identification numbers from the national registers of identification numbers within one business day from the date of receipt of such details;
3) non-considering the identification number upon issuance of the documents of registration, permission and other nature in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
by banks and organizations carrying out separate types of banking operations in the form of
1) non-considering the identification number, as well as failure to control the correctness of stating in accordance with an algorithm of formation of an identification number established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations in the form of:
failure to account for the identification number, as well as failure to control the accuracy of indication in compliance with the algorithm of formation of the business identification number and (or) control digit in the individual identification number as per the algorithm of its calculation established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1129. Original section/article: 468. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1130. Original section/article: 469. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements submitted to the activity on assembling, checking and technical maintenance of the means of security alarm
1. Violation of the requirements by individuals or legal entities submitted to the activity on assembling, checking and technical maintenance of the means of security alarm by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On security activity”, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, and equally non-elimination of the violation provided by a part one of this Article that entailed bringing to the administrative liability, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of forty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ninety nine, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred fifty monthly calculation indices with the prohibition of activity.

Section 1131. Original section/article: 470. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of security activity
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of security activity committed in the form of:
1) non-performance and (or) improper performance of the requirements on ensuring the engineering and technical strengthening of the objects subjected to the state protection approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) provision of a right to foreign legal entities, legal entities with foreign participation, foreign persons, as well as stateless persons to carry out all the types of security activity; to establish or be a founder (founders) of the private protective organizations; to have a private protective organization in a trust management;
3) hiring persons who do not meet the requirements of

Section 1132. Original section/article: 10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, paragraphs 4 and 6 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Security Activities” for the position of a security guard of a private security organisation”;
4) failure to comply with the requirements to provide the security guard in the performance of his/her official duties with a document of the established standard, certifying his/her identity and belonging to a private security organisation, and uniforms;
5) non-compliance with the restrictions provided by

Section 1133. Original section/article: 17-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On security activity”;
6) carrying out of the activity on training and raising of qualification of the workers holding positions of a head and guard in the private protective organization with the violation of requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
subject to fine officials, small business entities at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
1-1. The shelter, and is equal not informing law-enforcement bodies by the workers holding the security guard's position in the private security organization on the facts which have become known for him of the preparing or committed crimes if these actions don't contain signs of penal act, or about operation of the security alarm system from the protected objects in the territory of which are available weapon, ammunition and explosives, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five monthly settlement indicators. 
2. The actions (inaction) provided by parts of the first and 1-1 present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, and not elimination of the violation provided by part one of the present article, which has entailed administrative prosecution is equal –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, small business entities – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred thirty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators, with prohibition of activity or without that. 
Footnote.

Section 1134. Original section/article: 470. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1135. Original section/article: 471. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligations by the local executive bodies other authorized bodies and authorized persons established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1136. Original section/article: 471. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021).
1. Non-transfer, untimely or incomplete transfer of the sums of taxes and other compulsory payments into the budget subjected to transfer into the budget by the local executive bodies or authorized state bodies in accordance with the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and bodies mentioned in this part, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-submission, untimely, inaccurate or incomplete submission of the details determined by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for representation to the state revenues bodies by the local executive bodies and other authorized state bodies, shall – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for officials and notaries.
3. Failure to perform the requirements by the authorized state and local executive bodies on elimination of the violations detected in results of the tax control and mentioned in the act of control, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions (omission) provided by parts one, two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices for officials and notaries.
Note. The concept and terms of the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan used in this Article shall apply only in the sense in which they are used in the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1137. Original section/article: 471. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1138. Original section/article: 472. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for accounting and the following use of property received in ownership of the state on separate grounds, in cases provided by the legislative acts
1. Incomplete and (or) untimely transfer of property to the authorized body received in ownership of the state on separate grounds, if these acts do not have the signs of a criminally punishable act, specifically:
1) confiscated on the ground of court acts to the state budget;
2) material evidences on the ground of court acts turned into the state budget;
3) treasures containing the things related to the monuments of history and culture;
4) gifts received by persons holding responsible public office, persons authorised to perform public functions, persons equated to them (excluding candidates for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan or maslikhats, akims of cities of district significance, settlements, villages, rural districts, as well as members of elected bodies of local self-government), officials, as well as persons who are candidates authorised to perform the said functions to be transferred free of charge to the authorised state property management body;
5) transferred into republican ownership in the other cases provided by the legislative acts, including goods and transport vehicles registered in a customs regime of refusal in behalf of the state;
6) recognized ownerless in established manner;
7) transferred to the state by the right of succession, as well as escheated succession;
8) findings;
9) neglected animals, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of eight, on civil servants – in amount of fifteen, on legal entities – in amount of forty five monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-compliance with the procedure for accounting, storage, assessment and sale of the property received in ownership of the state on separate grounds committed in the form of:
1) non-ensuring of storage of the documents certifying occurrence of the right of ownership of the state;
2) choice of an organizer of auction not by the state procurement of the services on organization and conduct of the auctions;
3) failure to destroy the property that is not sold at the minimal price;
4) untimely transfer of the sums from selling such property to the state budget, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of fifteen, on legal entities – in amount of forty five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1139. Original section/article: 472. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1140. Original section/article: 473. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Disclosure of information constituting tax secret 
Disclosure of information constituting tax secret, without professional or service necessity by persons who have become aware of such information in the manner established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this action shall not contain the elements of criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1141. Original section/article: 473. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 122-VI dated 25.12.2017 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019).

Section 1142. Original section/article: 474. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of particular actions by the bodies (organizations) being authorized by the state without recovery of taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget, and equally without receipt of the documents confirming such payment
1. Carrying out of legally significant actions provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by bodies (organizations) being authorized by the state without recovery of taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Carrying out of legally significant actions provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the bodies (organizations) authorized by the state, without receipt of the document confirming payment of taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget in the cases when the receipt of confirming document is provided by the legislative acts, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two and this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.

Section 1143. Original section/article: 475. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal in tax registering or violation of the terms for tax registration
1. Refusal in tax registering of a tax payer or registration of the tax payer as a payer of value added tax, and equally violation of the terms for such registration (recording) by a civil servant of the state revenues bodies established by the tax legislation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1144. Original section/article: 476. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the emergency situation
1. Violation of the regime or failure to perform the requirements established by the state body due to announcement of emergency situation, as well as non-execution of legal orders and regulations of a governor of a region, if these actions (omissions to act) do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, insofar as:
1) special regime of entry and departure;
2) prohibition to leave particular place, own flat (house) for particular individuals for established term;
3) prohibition or restriction on organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, as well as entertaining, sport and other mass events;
4) prohibition of strikes;
5) restriction or prohibition of trade in arms, virulent chemical and poisonous substances, as well as alcohol drinks and alcohol-containing substances;
6) quarantine and conduct of other compulsory sanitary- epidemiological measures;
7) restriction or prohibition of using multiplying technology, as well as radio and television transmitting equipment, audio and video recording technology; prescriptions on withdrawal of audio amplifier technical means; measures to ensure control of the mass media;
8) special rules for using communications;
9) traffic limitation of the transport vehicles and conduct of their search;
10) prohibition to stay on the streets or in other public places for individuals during the curfew restrictions without specially issued passes and documents certifying their identity or to stay outside own dwelling place without the documents certifying identity, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
2. Actions (omissions to act), provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall – 
entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to thirty days.
Footnote.

Section 1145. Original section/article: 476. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1146. Original section/article: 477. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legal regime in a zone of conducting anti-terrorist operation
Violation of the legal regime or failure to perform the requirements established due to announcement of the anti-terrorist operation, insofar as:
1) special regime of entry and departure;
2) prohibition to stay on the separate fields of location and objects for individuals, as well as obstruction of towing transport vehicles;
2-1) presence of mass media representatives in the anti-terrorist operation area and their recording, photo and video shooting without the authorization of the head of the operational headquarters;
3) obstruction of inspecting the documents certifying identity of the individuals, conduct of personal inspection and search of the things being in possession of the individual, search of transport vehicles;
4) special rules for using communications;
5) obstruction of taking the transport vehicles for delivery of the persons being in need of emergency medical care to the medical institutions, transit to the place of commission of the act of terrorism, as well as for pursuing and detention of the persons being suspected in commission of the act of terrorism, if delay may create a real threat to life or health of the people;
6) suspension of the activity of hazardous production objects;
7) obstruction of temporary resettlement of individuals residing within the limits of the territory on which the legal regime of anti-terrorist operation is imposed;
8) introduction of quarantine, conduct of sanitary epidemiological, veterinary measures and measures on plant quarantine;
9) obstruction of entry to residential and other premises being in the ownership or in possession and in use of individuals and legal entities, and to the land fields belonging to them on the basis of the right of private ownership or land use;
10) restriction or prohibition of trade in arms, ammunition, explosive substances, virulent chemical and poisonous substances, establishment of the special regime of turnover of medical products, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, ethyl alcohol and alcohol products, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or the administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of eighty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices, with the suspension of the activity of hazardous production objects.
Footnote.

Section 1147. Original section/article: 477. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 02.08.2015 № 343-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1148. Original section/article: 478. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Actions provoking a breach of law and order in states of emergency or martial law
Footnote. The title of

Section 1149. Original section/article: 478. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Any actions that provoke a breach of public order or incite ethnic or religious hatred; actively obstructing natural persons or public officials from exercising their lawful rights and duties; or any actions disturbing public order and the peace of natural persons, as well as breaches of administrative supervision, committed in an area where a state of emergency or martial law has been declared, –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to thirty days.
2. Actions provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 1150. Original section/article: 478. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1151. Original section/article: 479. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to report measures taken and/or failure to take measures to eliminate the causes and conditions that contributed to the commission of an offence 
1. Failure by the head of an organisation or other persons to report on the measures taken, as well as failure to take measures to eliminate the causes and conditions conducive to the commission of criminal or administrative offences, as recommended by the authorities (officials) who examined the case, –
shall be subject to a fine of ten times the monthly calculation index.
2. Any actions referred to in part one of this article that are committed again within one year of an administrative penalty being imposed shall result in a fine of twenty times the monthly calculation index for officials, or twenty times the monthly calculation index for business entities, or the suspension of operations.
Footnote.

Section 1152. Original section/article: 479. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Artcile 480. Breach of administrative supervision 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1153. Original section/article: 480. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Failure to perform the rules of administrative supervision by a person released from the places of deprivation of freedom or restrictions imposed in respect of him (her) by the court, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest up to fifteen days.
Footnote.

Section 1154. Original section/article: 480. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1155. Original section/article: 481. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Transfer of banned substances, products and subjects to the persons detained in the correctional system facilities, special institutions
1. Transfer or attempt to transfer of alcohol drinks, medical and other substances having dopey effect, money, food products, products and other subjects by any method to the persons detained in the correctional system facilities, special institutions prohibited for storage and use in these institutions, hidden from searching, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of a subject being a tool or subject of commission of the administration infraction.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to thirty days, with the confiscation of a subject being a tool or subject of commission of the administrative infraction.

Section 1156. Original section/article: 482. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, keeping, bearing, carriage of weapons by individuals and legal entities
1. Illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, storage, carrying, transportation of smoothbore, gas weapons and cartridges not registered with the internal affairs bodies, electric, propellant, inert, signal, pneumatic weapons with muzzle energy over 7.5 Joules, caliber over 4.5 millimeters, the main (component) parts to it –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of twenty–five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices, with confiscation of weapons, as well as the main (component) parts to it.
2. Actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine for individuals in the amount of thirty, for small businesses or non–profit organizations – in the amount of thirty–five, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of forty, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of weapons, as well as the main (component) parts to it.
Note. A person who voluntarily surrendered an illegally stored weapon, as well as the main (component) parts to it, is released from administrative responsibility if his actions do not contain the composition of another offense.
Footnote.

Section 1157. Original section/article: 482. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1158. Original section/article: 483. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for storage, accounting, use, carriage, trade, destruction, entry, inflow of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying
1. Violation of the procedure for storage, accounting, use, carriage, trade, destruction, entry, inflow of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying by the persons having the licenses for the right to activity in the scope of turnover of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty five monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying.
2. Sale of non-military pyrotechnical products of the 4 hazard class outside the places of their storage and (or) to the persons that do not have the license for acquisition of non-military pyrotechnical products of the 4 hazard class, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying.
3. Actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of non-military pyrotechnical substances and products with their applying.

Section 1159. Original section/article: 484. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of circulation of civil and service weapons 
1. Violation of the rules of circulation of civil and service weapons, if this act does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for legal entities – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with or without suspension of the license and (or) permit.
2. The act provided for in part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for legal entities – in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices, with or without deprivation of a license and (or) permit.
Note. For the purposes of this Code, the circulation of weapons means production, assembly, repair, alteration, sale (trade), transfer, donation, awarding, inheritance, acquisition, collecting, exhibiting, accounting, storage, carrying, transportation, use, seizure, destruction, import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of weapons, including its main (component) parts and cartridges for it.
Footnote.

Section 1160. Original section/article: 484. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1161. Original section/article: 485. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal use of weapons 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1162. Original section/article: 485. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Illegal use of weapons, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators with suspension of action of permission to storage, storage and carrying weapon.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entails a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices with confiscation of weapons and deprivation of permission to store, keep and carry weapons. 
Note. Weapons confiscated in accordance with this Article and

Section 1163. Original section/article: 482. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, unsuitable for further use, as well as prohibited for circulation as civil and service weapons on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall be destroyed in accordance with the procedure provided for in

Section 1164. Original section/article: 795. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
Footnote.

Section 1165. Original section/article: 485. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1166. Original section/article: 485-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of opening and functioning of shooting shooting galleries (shooting ranges) and stands
1. Violation of an order of opening and functioning of shooting shooting galleries (shooting ranges) and stands –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators with suspension of action of permission to the right of opening and functioning of shooting shooting galleries (shooting ranges) and stands.
2. The action provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. The code is supplemented with

Section 1167. Original section/article: 485-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1168. Original section/article: 486. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of registration (re-registration) of civil, office, award, collection weapon or his statement on account
Footnote.

Section 1169. Original section/article: 486. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. The violation of an order of registration (re-registration) of civil, office, award, collection weapon or his statement on account which was expressed in violation of terms:
1) registration and (or) obtaining of a permission by individuals to storage, storage and carrying weapon;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.11.2019 № 272-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) notices the owner of weapon of law-enforcement body about loss or plunder of the weapon belonging to him;
4) appeals of the natural person to law-enforcement bodies for statement of weapon on account at change of the residence;
5) registration in law-enforcement bodies the legal entity of office, civil, collection weapon after his acquisition;
6) re-registrations or delivery on commission realization of civil weapon in case of the death of its owner;
7) appeals of legal entity to law-enforcement bodies for registration (re-registration) of weapon at the termination of period of validity of permission to storage, storage and carrying weapon, and it is equal to transfer to his branches (representations) without coordination with law-enforcement bodies, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifteen, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators. 
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of seventy monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1170. Original section/article: 486. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 25.11.2019 № 272-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1171. Original section/article: 487. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Evading from delivery of non-military weapons, ammunition to them for selling
Evading from delivery of non-military weapons, ammunition to them for selling by the individuals, the permission of whom for keeping and bearing them is annulled, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1172. Original section/article: 488. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies
1. Obstructing the organization or holding of peaceful assemblies, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to ten days.
2. Violation of the requirements, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, by a participant of a peaceful assembly held in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to ten days.
3. Violation of the requirements, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, by the organizer of a peaceful assembly held in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a warning or a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to ten days, on legal entities – in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Actions provided for by parts one, two and three of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days, on legal entities – in the amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
5. Provision of organizers and (or) participants of assemblies, meetings, demonstrations, marches, pickets or other public events, held in violation of the procedure, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, with premises or other property (means of communication, copying equipment, equipment, transport) or the creation of other conditions for their organization and holding, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to ten days, on legal entities – in the amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
6. Participation in assemblies, meetings, demonstrations, marches, pickets or other public events, held in violation of the procedure, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall – 
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days.
7. Organizing and (or) holding assemblies, meetings, demonstrations, marches, pickets or other public events, held in violation of the procedure, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the procedure of organizing and holding peaceful assemblies, if this action does not have signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Action provided for by part six of this Article, committed by foreigners, stateless persons, shall –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
9. Actions provided for part seven of this Article, committed by foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices with or without termination of activities of the legal entity.
10. Action provided for by part five of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to fifteen days, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
11. Action provided for by part six of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to twenty days.
12. Actions provided for by part seven of this Article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of seventy monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for the period of up to twenty-five days, on legal entities – in the amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1173. Original section/article: 488. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1174. Original section/article: 488-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of the organization of holding sporting and sports and mass, spectacular cultural events
1. Violation of an order of the organization of holding sporting and sports and mass, spectacular cultural events in the form of failure to provide or untimely providing to local executive bodies information provided by the legislation on culture and on physical culture and sport –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators, on legal entities – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
2. The actions (inaction) provided by part one of the present article, made repeatedly within a year after application of measures of an administrative penalty –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators, on legal entities – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 27 is supplemented with

Section 1175. Original section/article: 488-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.01.2016 № 446-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1176. Original section/article: 489. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public associations, as well as management, participation in the activity of public, religious associations that are not registered in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, financing of their activity
1. Commission of the actions by the heads, members of a public association or by the public association that are beyond the purposes and tasks determined by the charters of these public associations, shall –
entail a notification or fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Commission of the actions by the heads, members of a public association or by the public association breaching the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a notification or fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the activity of a public association for the term from three to six months.
3. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the activity of a public association for the term from three to six months.
4. Action provided by part two of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with the prohibition of the activity of a public association.
5. Financing of political parties by foreign legal entities and international organizations, legal entities with foreign participation, state bodies and organizations, charitable organizations, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of four hundred, on legal entities – in amount of two thousand monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of illegal donations.
6. Acceptance of illegal donations by a political party, shall –
entail a fine in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of the illegal donations and prohibition of the activity of the political party.
7. Failure to publish annual accounts on financial activity of a political party within the terms and volume established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the activity of the political party for the term up to six months.
8. Carrying out of the activity of a political party, its structural subdivisions (branches and representatives) without reregistration in the cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with the prohibition of the activity of the political party.
9. Management of the activity of public, religious associations not registered in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally the activity of which is suspended or prohibited, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
10. Participation in the activity of public, religious associations not registered in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally the activity of which is suspended or prohibited, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
11. Financing of the activity of public, religious associations unregistered in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally the activity of which is suspended or prohibited, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1177. Original section/article: 489. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1178. Original section/article: 489-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about non-profit organizations
1. Non-presentation, untimely presentation, as well as presentation of unreliable or knowingly false information to authorized agency with non-governmental organizations cooperation on own activities, including its founders (participants), the composition of the property, the sources of formation and money spending by non-profit organizations created in the form of a private institution, public, corporate and private Funds, an association of legal entities in the form of association (union), a public association, a non-profit Joint Stock Company (with the exception of political parties, religious associations and professional unions, non-profit Joint Stock Companies, founder or which shareholder shall be the state, subsidiaries, affiliates and other legal entities that shall be affiliated with them in accordance with the legislative acts Republic of Kazakhstan), as well as branches and representative offices (separate subdivisions) of international and foreign non-profit organizations carrying out activities in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
subject to prevention.
2. The actions (inaction) provided by part one of the present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators or suspension of operations for a period of three months. 
Footnote. Chapter 27 is supplemented with

Section 1179. Original section/article: 489-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 02.12. 2015 № 429-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 160-VI dated 13.06.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1180. Original section/article: 490. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on religious activity and religious associations
1. Violation of the requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan to:
1) conduct of religious customs, ceremonies and (or) meeting;
2) carrying out of charitable activity;
3) to import, production, release, edition and (or) distribution of religious literature and other materials of religious contents, objects of religious appointment;
4) construction of cultic buildings (structures), reprofiling (change of functional purpose) of buildings (structures) into cultic buildings (structures), shall –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices for individuals and one hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
2. Obstruction of legal religious activity, and equally the violation of civil rights of individuals on the grounds of relation to the religious or insult of their religious feelings or desecration of the subjects, structures and places being respected by the followers of a particular religious, if all the above mentioned actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine of twenty-five monthly calculation indices for individuals, fifty monthly calculation indices for officials, and one hundred monthly calculation indices for legal entities.
3. Carrying out of a missionary work without registration (reregistration), and equally use of religious literature, informational materials of religious content and subjects of religious purpose by the missionaries without the favourable conclusion of the religious examination, the distribution of religious denomination of the religious associations unregistered in the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a warning or a fine for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, for foreigners and stateless persons - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Carrying out of the activity by a religious association that is not provided by its charter, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the activity for the term up to three months.
5. Engagement in political activity by a religious association, and equally participation in the activity of political parties and (or) rendering of financial support, interference in the activity of the state bodies or assumption of the functions of the state bodies or their civil servants by the members of religious associations, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices with the suspension of the activity for the term up to three months.
6. Creation of organizational structures of religious associations in the state bodies, organizations, institutions, as well as public health and educational organizations, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of one hundred, on legal entities – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. Management of a religious association by the person appointed by a foreign religious centre without coordination with the authorized body, and equally failure to take measures by a head of the religious association to non-admitting involvement and (or) participation of minors in the activity of the religious association in case of objection of one of the parents of the minor or his (her) other legal representatives, shall –
entail a warning or a fine for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, for foreigners and stateless persons - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8. Actions (omission) provided by parts one, two, three, four, five and seven of this article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on civil servants in amount of three hundred, on legal entities – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices with the prohibition of their activity.
Footnote.

Section 1181. Original section/article: 490. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of K from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1182. Original section/article: 491. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for registration of the acts of civil status
Concealment of the circumstances obstructing marriage, or informing false details to the civil registry bodies, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1183. Original section/article: 492. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan without registration or without identity documents
1. Accommodation of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan without identity card either according to the invalid identity card or without registration at the place of residence, in the place of temporary stay (accommodation) from ten calendar days up to one month –
subject to prevention.
2. Accommodation of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan without identity card either according to the invalid identity card or without registration at the place of residence, in the place of temporary stay (accommodation) over one month –
subject to fine a rate of seven monthly settlement indicators. 
3. The act provided by parts of the first and second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, – 
subject to fine a rate of thirteen monthly settlement indicators.
4. Full-time residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan of the foreigner or the person without citizenship without registration on the permanent residence either without residence permit or without certificate of the person without citizenship or according to the invalid residence permit, the certificate of the person without citizenship over ten calendar days and also the untimely notice of law-enforcement bodies on loss of the passport, a look on residence or the certificate of the person without citizenship –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
5. The acts provided by a part of the fourth present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, – 
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators. 
Note. Requirements of part one of the present article about accommodation of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan without registration in the place of temporary stay (accommodation) don't extend to the temporary residents living for up to one month in the place of temporary stay (accommodation).
Footnote.

Section 1184. Original section/article: 492. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1185. Original section/article: 493. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Assumption by the owner of the dwelling or other persons under whose authority dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms, registration of natural persons who actually at them don't live, or rejection of the measures for removal from registration of the natural persons registered and which aren't living in the dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms belonging to the owner or being under authority of other persons or assumption of accommodation of natural persons without registration are
1. Assumption by the owner of the dwelling or other persons under whose authority dwellings are, buildings and (or) rooms, registration of natural persons who actually don't live in dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms belonging to the owner or being under authority of other persons –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators. 
2. The act provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
3. Failure to take measures by an owner of the dwelling or other persons under whose authority dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms, on removal from registration of the natural persons registered and who aren't living in the dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms belonging to the owner or being under authority of other persons are – 
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of forty five monthly settlement indicators.
4. The act provided by a part of the third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of eighty monthly settlement indicators.
5. Assumption by the lessor (lessor) of accommodation of natural persons without registration in the dwellings, buildings and (or) rooms belonging to the owner or being under authority of other persons –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
6. The act provided by a part of the fifth present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1186. Original section/article: 493. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1187. Original section/article: 494. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal confiscation of passports, identity certificates or taking them in pledge
1. Illegal confiscation of passports, identity certificates or taking them in pledge from the citizens, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1188. Original section/article: 495. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representation of knowingly false details to the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon acceptance of the documents certifying identity, or upon filing an application for obtainment of the permission of r a permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan or on conferment of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or restoration of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Representation of knowingly false details to the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon receipt of the documents certifying identity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Representation of knowingly false details to the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a foreign person or stateless person upon filing an application for obtainment of the permission for a permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan or on conferment of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or restoration of the citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail the administrative expulsion beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 1189. Original section/article: 496. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on citizenship
1. Use of passport and (or) identity certificate of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a person that lost the citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
shall entail a penalty in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices for individuals.
2. Failure to report or reporting within a period exceeding that established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan the fact of acquisition of foreign citizenship –
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices or administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Acts envisaged in paragraphs one and two of this article, committed by persons in the civil service, as well as by persons exercising functions of a representative of authority or performing organisational, administrative or administrative and economic functions in public authorities, as well as in entities of the quasi-public sector, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1190. Original section/article: 496. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1191. Original section/article: 497. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of submission of primary statistical data
1. Submission of doubtful primary statistical data to appropriate authorities of the state statistics –
attracts prevention. 
2. Non-presentation of primary statistical data in appropriate authorities of the state statistics at the scheduled time –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, on non-profit organizations, small business entities – at a rate of fourteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred twenty monthly settlement indicators.
3. The acts provided by parts of the first and second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, – 
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fourteen, on officials, on non-profit organizations, small business entities – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1192. Original section/article: 497. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1193. Original section/article: 498. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal, non-representation, untimely representation, concealment, additions and other deviations of legal statistics data and special accountings
1. Refusal, non-representation to the state body carrying out the activity in the field of legal statistics and special accountings, legal statistics data and special accountings, their representation with the violation of established term, concealment, additions and other intended deviations of the legal statistics data and special accountings, and equally obstruction of receiving the legal statistics information and details of the special accountings in any form, shall –
subject to fine officials and private bailiffs at a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators. 
2. It is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 1194. Original section/article: 498. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1195. Original section/article: 499. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of submission of administrative data
1. Representation by an administrative source of doubtful administrative data to authorized body in the field of the state statistics –
subject to fine officials at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Non-presentation by an administrative source of administrative data to authorized body in the field of the state statistics –
subject to fine officials at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
3. The acts provided by parts of the first and second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing administrative 
subject to fine subject to fine to officials at a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators.
Note. In the present article it is necessary to understand the heads of an administrative source or persons fulfilling their duties as officials responsible for representation by an administrative source of administrative data and also for their reliability.
Footnote.

Section 1196. Original section/article: 499. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1197. Original section/article: 500. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal from conduct of the state statistical supervision
Footnote.

Section 1198. Original section/article: 500. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1199. Original section/article: 501. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Loss, sale, transfer or other illegal disclosure of primary statistical data, statistical information and (or) databases official
Loss, sale, transfer or other illegal disclosure of primary statistical data, statistical information and (or) databases allowing to identify the respondent, the official of bodies of the state statistics subordinated to the organization of department of authorized body in the field of the state statistics except for the cases provided by

Section 1200. Original section/article: 8. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On the state statistics” if these actions don't contain signs of penal act, –
subject to fine subject to fine to a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1201. Original section/article: 501. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced 01.01.2016).

Section 1202. Original section/article: 502. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Collecting primary statistical data on an unconfirmed statistical form 
Footnote.

Section 1203. Original section/article: 502. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1204. Original section/article: 503. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Collecting administrative data on an uncoordinated form
Collecting administrative data on an uncoordinated form –
subject to prevention or fine officials at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
Note. In the present article it is necessary to understand the heads of an administrative source or persons fulfilling their duties, who have charged to carry out collecting administrative data on an uncoordinated form as officials.
Footnote.

Section 1205. Original section/article: 503. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1206. Original section/article: 504. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of established requirements in the scope of protection of the state secrets, as well as in work with service classified information
1. Violation of established procedure for access or admission to the state secrets, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Infringement of the established requirements for the protection of state secrets by persons admitted or previously admitted to work with state secrets, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Unreasonable classification of details and their carriers that are not subjected to classification, use of the secrecy labels and other restrictive labels for classifying the details that are not related to the state secrets, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions mentioned in a part three of this Article committed for the purpose of concealing the violation of legality, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
5. Unreasonable disclosure of details and their carriers constituting the state secrets, violation of the terms for disclosing the carriers established upon their classification, with the exception of the cases provided by the legislation on state secrets, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
6. Violation of established requirements of working with service classified information by the persons admitted to it due to professional or service activity that entailed disclosure or loss of these details, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1207. Original section/article: 504. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1208. Original section/article: 505. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for site improvement of the territories of cities and inhabited localities, as well as destruction of infrastructure facilities, destruction and damage of green plantings of a city and inhabited localities
1. Violation of the rules for site improvement of the territories of cities and inhabited localities, as well as destruction of infrastructure facilities, destruction and damage of green plantings of a city and inhabited localities, except for cases, providef for by

Section 1209. Original section/article: 381-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1210. Original section/article: 505. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1211. Original section/article: 506. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal entry to protected objects
Unauthorised entry to an object protected under the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan by law enforcement or special public authorities, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations, as well as to a particularly important state, strategic facility and a facility of sectors of the economy of strategic importance and belonging to legal entities wherein the state directly or indirectly holds a controlling stake (share of participation) in the charter capital, a hazardous production facility protected by a private security organisation, if this act does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
Footnote.

Section 1212. Original section/article: 506. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1213. Original section/article: 507. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Obstruction of the activity of participants of the national preventive mechanism
Obstruction of the legal activity of participants of the national preventive mechanism by a civil servant with the use of official position, and equally interference to this activity committed by the civil servant with the use of own official position that entailed essential violation of their rights and legal interests, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1214. Original section/article: 508. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Divulgence of details on a private life of a person by participants of the national preventive mechanism became known to them in the course of preventive visits
Divulgence of details on a private life of a person by participants of the national preventive mechanism became known to them in the course of preventive visits, without the consent of the person, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1215. Original section/article: 509. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Destruction of documents of the National archive fund
1. Destruction of documents of the National archive fund, personnel documents without coordination with the authorized body or local executive body of the oblast, city of republican significance, the capital, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
2. The act provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
Chapter 28. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS ENCROACINH ON
ESTABLISHED MANNER OF THE STATE BORDER REGIME OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN AND PROCEDURE FOR STAYING IN A
TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

Section 1216. Original section/article: 510. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the frontier regime in a frontier zone and procedure for staying in separate locations
1. Violation of the frontier regime in a frontier zone upon entry (passage), temporary staying or movement in the frontier zone:
1) a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a foreigner or a stateless person without identity documents;
2) excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be brought into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) the foreigner (the resident of border areas of the adjacent states) who has driven to the Republic of Kazakhstan through points of the simplified admission without identity documents, or evading from departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan at the scheduled time, and change of a route when following by the foreigner or person without citizenship through a border area on ways of the international raiLawy and automobile communications to the check point for the purpose of departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan is equal –
subject to fine subject to fine to a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
2. Carrying out of economic, fishing and other activity, conduct of public and political, cultural and other measures in a frontier zone without notifying the Frontier Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy five monthly calculation indices.
3. Entry (passage), temporary staying or movement of a foreign person or stateless person in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, temporary closed for visiting by foreign persons and stateless persons without the permission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Internal Affairs Bodies, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
4. Acts envisaged by parts one, two, three of this Article, committed by a foreigner or stateless person repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine subject to fine to a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators or administrative exclusion out of borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
5. Acts foreseen by parts one and two of this Article, committed by a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1217. Original section/article: 510. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1218. Original section/article: 511. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of prohibitions established in a territory of forbidden zone under arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the forbidden district under arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1219. Original section/article: 511. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.05.2020 № 337-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Staying of individuals in a territory of forbidden zone under arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Construction and conduct of any works, with the exception of the works performed for the purpose of ensuring counter-sabotage and fire security in a territory of forbidden zone under arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
3. Construction of buildings and structures, economic and other activities not related to the direct operation of arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shooting from firearms, the use of pyrotechnic substances and products, arrangement of shooting ranges (firing ranges) and stands, the use of aircraft (including unmanned aerial vehicles), as well as the use of means, systems, devices and equipment for surveillance, audio and video recording, photography, transmission of information, except as otherwise provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the territory of the forbidden area at the arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in the amount of fifteen, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship – in the amount of twenty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1220. Original section/article: 511. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.05.2020 № 337-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1221. Original section/article: 512. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Infringement of the regimes of internal and territorial waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Title of

Section 1222. Original section/article: 512. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.01.2025 № 155-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Breach of the regime of internal and territorial waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan part of the waters of border rivers, lakes and other water bodies, expressed in non-compliance with the established procedure for accounting, maintenance, departure from and return to the base points, stay on the water of Kazakhstan small self-propelled and non-self-propelled (surface and underwater) vessels (means) and vessels (means) travelling on ice, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. Engaging in fishing, research, survey or other activities in the internal and territorial waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the Kazakh part of the waters of border rivers, lakes and other water bodies without permission of the authorised state body in violation of the procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of eighty monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of transport vehicles and other subjects being indirect subjects for commission of the administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 1223. Original section/article: 512. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1224. Original section/article: 513. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the regime in checkpoints through the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of the regime in checkpoints through the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan being expressed in non-compliance with the established procedure for entry to the checkpoints, staying, movement and departure from them of the persons, transport vehicles, entry, staying, movement, inflow of cargo and goods, carrying out of economic and another activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed by a foreign person or stateless person, shall –
subject to fine subject to fine to a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators or administrative exclusion out of borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1225. Original section/article: 513. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1226. Original section/article: 514. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the regime of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of the regime of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan being expressed in non-compliance with the established procedure for:
1) maintenance of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan (with the exception of the field of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Caspian sea);
2) crossings of Frontier of the Republic of Kazakhstan if this action doesn't contain signs of penal act;
3) pass of the persons, transport vehicles, cargo and goods through the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) entry, temporary staying, residence, movement in a frontier belt and performance of flights over the frontier belt;
5) carrying out of economic, fishing or another activity, conduct of public policy, cultural or another events on the State Border and in a frontier belt, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed by a foreign person or stateless person, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of transport vehicles and other subjects that are direct subjects for commission of the administrative infraction, or administrative arrest for the term up to ten days or administrative expulsion beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1227. Original section/article: 514. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1228. Original section/article: 515. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal carriage through the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Failure to take measures on prevention of illegal entry of persons in a transport vehicle and its use for illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a transport or another organization carrying out international carriage that entailed the illegal crossing or attempt of illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by one or several violators, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to take measures on prevention of illegal entry of persons in a transport vehicle and its use for illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a worker of a transport or another organization carrying out international carriage, that are included in his (her) official duties, that entailed the illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if the mentioned act was not the aiding in a crime or attempt of illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by one or several violators, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure to take measures by a person crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan with regard to private affairs on prevention of using the transport vehicle operated by him (her) by the order person for the illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan that entailed illegal crossing of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by one or several violators, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1229. Original section/article: 516. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Insubordination to legal regulation or requirement of a military servant due to fulfillment of the obligations on protection of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Insubordination to legal regulation or requirement of a military servant due to fulfillment of the obligations on protection of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to five days.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time by a foreign person or person without the citizenship, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term up to five days beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 1230. Original section/article: 517. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of migration of population by a foreign person or stateless person
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1231. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
).
2. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of migration of population by a foreign person or stateless person being expressed in non-compliance with the rules for the transit passing through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices or administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of migration of population by a foreign person or stateless person being expressed in non-departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan after expiration of the period established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
1) within three days, -
entail a warning;
2) more than three before the expiration of five days, -
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices;
3) more than five before the expiration of ten days, -
entail a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation by a foreigner or stateless person of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of population migration, expressed in evasion from departure for a period exceeding ten days after the expiration of the period established by law, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty-five monthly calculation indices or administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
5. Violation by a foreigner or stateless person of the legislation of the Republic of in the field of population migration, expressed in the inconsistency of the activities carried out with the goals specified in the visa, or employment in the Republic of Kazakhstan without obtaining a certificate of conformity of qualifications for self-employment, issued by a local executive body, or work permits, when obtaining such a certificate or permit shall be a prerequisite for the implementation of labor activity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to ten days or administrative expulsion beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. Actions provided by part three of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices or administrative expulsion beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.
7. The acts provided by a part two, four and five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days with administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1232. Original section/article: 517. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 24.11.2015 № 421-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1233. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 13.05.2020 № 327-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1234. Original section/article: 518. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of migration of population by individuals or legal entities accepting foreign persons and stateless persons
1. Rejection by the accepting person of measures for timely registration of documents for the right to stay of foreigners and stateless persons in the Republic of Kazakhstan, or their departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan after a certain period of stay, or late informing the internal affairs authorities on immigrants staying with them, shall –
subject to prevention natural persons, a penalty on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations at a rate of ten, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Provision of a dwelling place to a foreign person or stateless person staying in the Republic of Kazakhstan with the breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of migration of population or avoidance from departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan within the established terms, or non-conformance of the actual residence place to the address stated upon registration, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty five, on the official, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of seventy five monthly settlement indicators.
3. The actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on the official, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of seventy, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1235. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1236. Original section/article: 518. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1237. Original section/article: 519. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Engagement of foreign labour force and labour immigrants with breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Title of

Section 1238. Original section/article: 519. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V 9shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Involvement of foreign labor by the employer without the permission of a local executive body or use of work of the foreigners and (or) stateless persons, not having the certificates of compliance of qualification for independent employment, issued by a local executive body, or the permissions to the labor immigrant, issued by internal affairs bodies, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on officials – at a rate of fifty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of seven hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. Appointment of a foreign person by an employer to the position (profession or specialty) that does not conform to the position (profession or specialty) stated in permission of the local executive body for engagement of foreign labour force, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on officials – at a rate of fifty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of seven hundred monthly settlement indicators.
3. The actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifty, on officials – at a rate of hundred, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of three hundred, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
5. Engagement of labour immigrants to perform the works (render the services) in a private household by an employer-individual that are without the relevant permission issued by the internal affairs bodies, or conclusion of the labour contracts on performance of works (rendering of services) in a private household by one employer-individual with more than five labour immigrants at the same time, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
6. The actions provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1239. Original section/article: 519. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 24.11.2015 № 421-V (shall be enforced from 101.01.2017); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 13.05.2020 № 327-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1240. Original section/article: 520. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal activity on employment of the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan abroad
Footnote.

Section 1241. Original section/article: 520. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
Chapter 29. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE SCOPE
OF CUSTOMS AFFAIRS

Section 1242. Original section/article: 521. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the mode of a customs control zone
Movement of goods, vehicles and persons, including officials of public authorities (except customs), through borders of a customs control zone and also implementation in this zone of production and other business activity without the permission of body of state revenues – 
subject to fine natural persons, officials at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1243. Original section/article: 521. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1244. Original section/article: 522. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure of activity in the sphere of customs affairs
Non-compliance by the customs representative, owners of a warehouse of storage of own goods, warehouse of temporary storage, free or customs warehouse, duty free shop of conditions and duties of implementation of such activity according to the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On customs regulation in the Republic of Kazakhstan” or discrepancy of the rooms or territories intended for establishment of the place or a warehouse of temporary storage, a customs or free warehouse, duty free shop, to the requirements established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1245. Original section/article: 522. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1246. Original section/article: 523. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure of activity by customs carrier
Non-compliance by customs carrier with the conditions and duties provided by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan for implementation of such activity including absence or malfunction of the technical equipment on the vehicle allowing body of state revenues to define the location of this vehicle – 
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1247. Original section/article: 523. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1248. Original section/article: 524. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-notification of body of state revenues about arrival of goods
Non-notification of body of state revenues when importing goods to the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union about arrival by non-presentation of documents according to the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of ten, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators. 
Footnote.

Section 1249. Original section/article: 524. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1250. Original section/article: 525. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of departure of goods
1. Violation of an order of departure of goods from the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union without the permission of body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan or non-presentation of documents for departure according to the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to prevention.
2. The act provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of ten, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1251. Original section/article: 525. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1252. Original section/article: 526. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Rejection of measures in case of accident, force majeure or other circumstances
Rejection in case of accident, force majeure or other circumstances of measures for ensuring safety of goods, not message in the nearest body of state revenues about these circumstances and the location of such goods or a failure to provide of their transportation (transportation) in the nearest body of state revenues or other place specified by body of state revenues –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1253. Original section/article: 526. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1254. Original section/article: 527. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to represent goods and transport vehicles at the place of delivery
Failure to represent goods and transport vehicles at the place of delivery and failure to deliver them to the state revenues body of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1255. Original section/article: 528. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Issuance without permission of the state revenues body of the Republic of Kazakhstan, loss or non-delivery of goods, transport vehicles and documents on them to the state revenues body of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Delivery without the permission of bodies of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the goods and vehicles which are under customs control –
subject to fine a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators.
1-1. Loss or not bringing in the place of delivery of the goods and vehicles which are under customs control determined by bodies of state revenues or customs authority of the member state of the Eurasian Economic Union –
subject to fine a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators with confiscation of the goods and vehicles which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense.
2. Non-delivery of the customs or other documents on goods and transport vehicles being under the customs control accepted for delivery to the state revenues body, shall –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
3. Non-compliance established by body of state revenues or customs authority of the member state of the Eurasian Economic Union of delivery period of goods, vehicles and documents on them –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1256. Original section/article: 528. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1257. Original section/article: 529. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Vehicle Not stop
Not stop of the vehicle going through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union and also the vehicle moved through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union as goods in places of movement of goods through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union except for cases when such not stop is caused by technical malfunction of the vehicle or force majeure, –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1258. Original section/article: 529. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1259. Original section/article: 530. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Departure of the vehicle without the permission of body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Departure of the vehicle which is under customs control or the vehicle moved through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union as goods from the place of his parking without the permission of body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1260. Original section/article: 530. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1261. Original section/article: 531. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of commission of the customs operations connected with goods placement under customs procedure and customs cleaning of goods
Violation of an order of commission of the customs operations connected with goods placement under customs procedure, and customs cleaning of goods, that is non-compliance by the established customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan of requirements for goods placement under customs procedure, to the space and time of commission of customs operations and also the conditions of application of a prime order of the room of separate types of goods for customs procedure, except for the cases provided by other articles of the present chapter –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1262. Original section/article: 531. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1263. Original section/article: 532. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal operations, change of a state, use and (or) the order of goods concerning which customs cleaning isn't complete
1. Carrying out operations, change of a state, use and (or) the order of goods concerning which customs cleaning isn't complete, in defiance of the requirements and conditions established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan except for the cases provided by other articles of the present chapter –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
2. The actions provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators with confiscation of the goods which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense or without that.
Footnote.

Section 1264. Original section/article: 532. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1265. Original section/article: 533. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conduct of cargo and other operations with the goods being under the customs control without permission of the state revenues body
Transportation, loading, unloading, transshipment, correction of damages to packing, packing, repacking or acceptance for transfer of the goods and transport vehicles being under the customs control, taking samples and examples of such goods, opening of premises, capacities and other places where the mentioned goods and transport vehicles may be located, or the change of a transport vehicle of international carriage carrying the goods being under the customs control without the permission of the state revenues body or notification, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1266. Original section/article: 534. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Destruction, removal, change or exchange of the mends of identification
1. Destruction, removal, change or exchange of the mends of identification used by the state revenues bodies, including foreign states without the permission of the state revenues body, or damage or loss of such means of identification, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1267. Original section/article: 535. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of customs declaration of goods 
1. Violation by the customs applicant and (or) customs representative of an order of customs declaration of goods, that is non-compliance by the established customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan of requirements for an order of filling of the customs declaration and customs declaring, including preliminary, incomplete, periodic and temporary customs declaration of goods, in the place of customs declaration of goods, except for the cases provided by other articles of the present chapter –
subject to prevention.
2. The act provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1268. Original section/article: 535. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1269. Original section/article: 536. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for carrying out the activity in the scope of the customs affairs by a customs representative
1. Carrying out of the activity by a customs representative in the scope of the customs affairs in behalf of a third party without conclusion of the civil law contract with the third person or upon expiry of the contract’s validity term or after its dissolution, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed by a customs representative repeatedly second time within a year, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1270. Original section/article: 537. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a procedure of activity in the sphere of customs affairs Authorized Economic Operator
Non-compliance by Authorized Economic Operator with the requirements provided by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan for implementation of such activity –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1271. Original section/article: 537. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1272. Original section/article: 538. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of terms of the customs declaration, documents and data
1. Non-presentation to body of state revenues at the scheduled time of the customs declaration, documents and data at customs declaration of goods, except for the cases provided by other articles of the present chapter – 
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Non-presentation to body of state revenues in the terms established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan, the statement for commission of operations concerning temporarily taken out vehicles of the international transportation which are the goods placed under customs procedure of temporary import (admission) –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1273. Original section/article: 538. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1274. Original section/article: 539. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-presentation to body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the reporting or submission of the doubtful reporting and non-compliance with an order of conducting account
Non-presentation by customs carrier, the customs representative, owners of a warehouse of storage of own goods, a warehouse of temporary storage, a customs or free warehouse, duty free shop, Authorized Economic Operators, customs applicants as it should be and terms which are determined by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan, the reporting on the imported, taken out, declared, arriving, stored, processed, produced, acquired and realized goods which are under customs control or in the territory of free customs areas or submission of the doubtful reporting and is equal to body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan non-compliance with an order of conducting accounting of such goods –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1275. Original section/article: 539. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1276. Original section/article: 540. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of goods placement on storage, an order of their storage and carrying out operations with them
Violation of an order of goods placement on storage and an order of their storage, the established customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan, periods of storage under customs locks, about movement of goods from one warehouse on another, and is equal carrying out operations with goods in customs warehouses, warehouses of temporary storage and free warehouses –
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1277. Original section/article: 540. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1278. Original section/article: 541. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the terms of temporary storage of goods
Footnote.

Section 1279. Original section/article: 541. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1280. Original section/article: 542. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for processing of goods and exchange of the products after processing
1. Violation of an order of processing of goods, that is non-compliance with the requirements established by the customs legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, conditions which are contained in the document on conditions of processing of goods if such document is obligatory according to conditions of customs procedure, an order and terms of processing of goods, quantities of an exit of products of processing, carrying out operations on processing of such goods, shall – 
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of established procedure for replacing the products after processing of domestic goods by other goods, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1281. Original section/article: 542. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1282. Original section/article: 543. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to terminate the customs procedure within established terms
1. Failure to complete at the scheduled time of customs procedure concerning which the requirement about its end is established –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. Not export from the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union of temporarily imported vehicles of the international transportation –
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices for individuals, twenty monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, thirty monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and fifty monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
2. Not export from the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union of temporarily imported goods and (or) vehicles for private use at the scheduled time of temporary import –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
3. Representation to body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan of invalid documents, the documents received in the illegal way or the documents relating to other goods and (or) vehicles as confirmation of the return export or import or impossibility of it for the reasons of destruction or loss of goods and (or) vehicles owing to accident or force majeure, natural wear or a decrease or their leaving from possession in connection with illegal actions of bodies and officials of the foreign state – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with or without confiscation of goods and (or) vehicles that are direct subjects of an administrative infraction.
4. Action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of sixty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices, with or without confiscation of vehicles that are direct subject of an administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 1283. Original section/article: 543. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1284. Original section/article: 544. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unlawful operations, change of state, use and (or) disposal of goods and transport vehicles put under particular customs procedure
Conduct of operations, change of the state, use and (or) disposal of goods and transport vehicles not in accordance with their customs procedure, and equally transfer of the right to use the customs procedure by transferring the rights of possession, use or disposal in respect of the goods to the other person without permission of the state revenues body if this decision is compulsory, if it is allowed in accordance with the customs procedure, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the transport vehicles being direct subjects for commission of the administrative infraction with the exclusion of the persons carrying out the activity in the scope of customs affairs from the relevant register.

Section 1285. Original section/article: 545. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with an order of application of the bans and restrictions when moving goods and vehicles through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union
Movement of goods and vehicles across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union without compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this action does not contain elements of a criminal offense, -
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifteen, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators, with confiscation of the goods and (or) vehicles which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense or without that.
Footnote.

Section 1286. Original section/article: 545. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1287. Original section/article: 546. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Movement of goods and vehicles through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union natural persons with violation of an order of movement of goods for the private use established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote.

Section 1288. Original section/article: 546. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).
Failure to declare goods and (or) transport vehicles by individuals according to established form for the personal use subjected to the customs declaring, with the exception of the cases provided by

Section 1289. Original section/article: 547. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1290. Original section/article: 546. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1291. Original section/article: 547. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of an order of movement of goods in the international mailings
Violation of an order of the movement of goods in the international mailings established by the customs legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union and (or) the Republic of Kazakhstan –
Subjects to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1292. Original section/article: 547. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1293. Original section/article: 548. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Movement of goods and vehicles through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union besides customs control
Footnote.

Section 1294. Original section/article: 548. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).
1. Movement of goods and vehicles through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union besides customs control, that is out of the state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan of places of movement of goods determined by bodies through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union or out of the determined working hours of bodies of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the specified places if this action doesn't contain signs of penal act, –
Subjects to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty five, on small business entities – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of three hundred monthly settlement indicators, with confiscation of the goods and vehicles which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 1295. Original section/article: 548. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Laws of the RK from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1296. Original section/article: 549. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealment from customs control of the goods moved through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union
Concealment from customs control of goods being moved or moved across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, including through the use of hiding places or other methods that make it difficult to detect goods, or giving some goods the appearance of others, if this action does not contain elements of a criminal offense, -
subject to fine a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators with confiscation of the goods which have been direct objects of offense or without that and also confiscation of goods and vehicles with specially made hiding places used for movement through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union with concealment of the goods and objects which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 1297. Original section/article: 549. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); as amended, dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1298. Original section/article: 550. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Movement of goods and vehicles through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union with deceptive use of documents or means of identification
Movement of goods and vehicles across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as placing goods under the customs procedure of customs transit or in a temporary storage warehouse with the submission to the state revenue authority of invalid documents as documents required for customs purposes, including those that may serve as grounds for non-compliance with prohibitions and restrictions, documents obtained illegally, or documents related to other goods and vehicles, as well as the use of a counterfeit means of identification or a genuine means of identification related to other goods and vehicles, with the exception of cases provided for in

Section 1299. Original section/article: 555. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, if these actions do not contain elements of a criminal offense, - 
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators with confiscation of the goods and (or) vehicles which are direct objects of commission of administrative offense or without that.
Footnote.

Section 1300. Original section/article: 550. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1301. Original section/article: 551. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non declaration or doubtful customs declaration of goods, cash, monetary instruments, the doubtful statement of data in customs documents
1. Failure to declare or inaccurate customs declaration of goods being moved or moved across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, i.e. failure to declare in the prescribed form or declaration by the declarant, customs representative, authorized economic operator in the customs declaration and other documents required for customs purposes, of inaccurate information about the goods, the selected customs procedure, customs value or country of origin of the goods, or declaration of other inaccurate information providing grounds for exemption from payment of customs duties, taxes or underestimation of the amount of customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, or entailing non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of the obligation to pay them, except for cases provided for in other articles of this chapter, if this action does not contain elements of a criminal offense, -
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty-five percent of the amount of unpaid customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties.
2. The acts provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty percent of the amount of unpaid customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties.
3. Non declaration or doubtful declaring by natural persons of the money and monetary instruments moved through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union and subjects to written declaring –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty-five percent of the undeclared or falsely declared amount of cash and (or) the value of monetary instruments with confiscation of undeclared or falsely declared cash and monetary instruments.
4. The doubtful statement of data on the goods moved or moved through customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union in the statement for release of goods before submission of the declaration on goods or in the statement for commission of operations concerning temporarily taken out vehicles of the international transportation which are the goods placed under customs procedure of temporary import (admission), that is not statement in the established form or the statement by the person in the specified documents of false information on goods, the chosen customs procedure, customs cost or the statement of other false information attracting understating of the amount of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Note. The amounts of customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties payable are calculated in accordance with the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Customs Regulation in the Republic of Kazakhstan".
Footnote.

Section 1302. Original section/article: 551. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1303. Original section/article: 552. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Transportation, storage, acquisition, use or the order by the goods and vehicles imported on the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union with violation of customs rules
Footnote.

Section 1304. Original section/article: 552. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).
1. Transportation, storage, acquisition, use or the order by the goods and vehicles imported on the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union besides customs control or with concealment from such control, or with the deceptive use of documents or means of identification or which aren't declared or doubtfully declared, and equally in transportation, storage and purchase of goods and vehicles concerning which customs privileges regarding the customs payments and taxes used or alienated without the permission of body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan in other purposes, than in connection with what such privileges have been provided are provided –
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of the goods and transport vehicles that are direct subjects for commission of the administrative infraction, or without such.
Footnote.

Section 1305. Original section/article: 552. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1306. Original section/article: 553. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for use and (or) disposal of goods being restricted in use and (or) disposal, as well as conditionally released goods and transport vehicles
Use and (or) disposal of goods being restricted in use and (or) disposal, as well as conditionally released goods and transport vehicles in other purposes than those provided by the customs legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in connection of which such privileges were provided, shall –
entail a fine in subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.

Section 1307. Original section/article: 554. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The actions directed to return without the appropriate bases of the paid (collected) customs duties, customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, advance payments, receiving payments and other compensations or their not return
Representation to body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the documents containing the false information granting the right for return of the paid (collected) customs duties, customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, advance payments made on account of payment of the forthcoming customs duties, customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, a penalty fee, percent and also the advance payments made as ensuring discharge of duty on payment of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, receiving payments and other compensations or their not return or return not in full without the appropriate bases if these actions don't contain signs of penal act, –
subject to fine legal entities at a rate of two hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1308. Original section/article: 554. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1309. Original section/article: 555. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of terms of payment of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, customs duties, percent
Non-execution or inadequate execution by the payers and (or) persons performing with the payer a solidary duty, obligations for payment of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties at the scheduled time, failure to pay customs duties, percent at the scheduled time –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty five, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1310. Original section/article: 555. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1311. Original section/article: 556. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution of the requirement of body of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan about payment of the due amounts of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, a penalty fee, percent at the scheduled time
Non-execution by bank, insurance company, the guarantor of the requirement of body of state revenues about payment of the due amounts of the customs duties, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, a penalty fee, percent at the scheduled time –
subject to finesmall business entities or non-profit organizations at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1312. Original section/article: 556. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1313. Original section/article: 557. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution by the banks and organizations which are carrying out separate types of bank operations, decisions of bodies of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Non-execution of decisions of bodies of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collecting debt on customs payments, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, a penalty fee, percent or about suspension of account transactions of bank accounts of the payer because of the banks and the organizations which are carrying out separate types of bank operations –
subjects a fine legal entities at a rate of two hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1314. Original section/article: 557. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 1315. Original section/article: 558. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to meet requirements of bodies of state revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the sphere of customs affairs
1. Failure to meet requirements of bodies of state revenues and their officials in the sphere of customs affairs –
subject sv prevention.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, – 
subjects to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1316. Original section/article: 558. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 30. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN A TRANSPORT,
IN ROAD FACILITIES

Section 1317. Original section/article: 559. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules ensuring safety of railway traffic
1. Violation of the rules of transit of horse-drawn carriage (sleighs) and driving of baggage, riding animals and livestock through the railway lines, cattle grazing in a railroad precinct, shall –
entail a penalty in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
1-1. The action envisaged by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within one year after imposition of an administrative penalty, 
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Damage of railway lines, shelter forests, snow fences and other track facilities, structures and signaling arrangement and communication devices, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on legal entities – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-compliance with the established gauges upon loading and unloading of cargo, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on legal entities – in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. Laying, dropping or leaving subjects on the railway lines that may cause violation of the train traffic, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
5. Passage on the railway lines in undesignated areas, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices.
5-1. An act referred to in part five of this article committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative 
penalty shall entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
6. Violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on railway transport committed upon:
1) maintenance of turnouts, station and main lines of railway network and railway approaching lines;
2) maintenance, operation and repair of rolling stock, technical means aimed at ensuring traffic safety on railway transport, artificial structures, as well as railway crossings, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on civil servants – in amount of seven, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of eight, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
7. Violation of the rail safety rules that entailed damage of a railway rolling stock to the state that may not be restored, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Violation of the rail safety rules in result of which the rolling stock is damaged in the volume that requires its uncoupling and repairing, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of seventy, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
9. Failure to represent information on committed security violations on railway lines to the authorized body by participants of a carriage process within the terms established by the rail safety rules, shall –
subject to fine officials, on small business entities at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1318. Original section/article: 559. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 295-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1319. Original section/article: 560. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for use of the means of railway transport
1. Illegal transit in freight trains, boarding and unloading on the way, transit on a footboard and roofs of wagons, illegal stop of train without necessity, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Discharge of rubbish and other subjects from windows and doors of the wagons of trains, illegal opening of the outer doors during train traffic, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of three monthly calculation indices.

Section 1320. Original section/article: 561. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Operation of the rolling stock and city rail transport without the state registration or a re-registration
Footnote.

Section 1321. Original section/article: 561. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 05.05.2017 № 59-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Operation of the rolling stock and city rail transport without the state registration or a re-registration -
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of two, on small business entities - at a rate of five, on subjects of average business - at a rate of seven, on subjects of large business - at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of seven, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1322. Original section/article: 561. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 05.05.2017 № 59-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication.

Section 1323. Original section/article: 562. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of transport public transport vehicles and their internal equipment
Damage of public transport vehicles, specifically passenger wagons and locomotives on a railway transport, vessels on marine and river transport, buses, trolleys, trams, as well as damage of their internal equipment, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1324. Original section/article: 563. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the procedure for use of the air space of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of the procedure for use of the air space of the Republic of Kazakhstan, specifically flights of aerial vessels and other flight vehicles, conduct of all the types of shootings, rocket launching, explosive works and carrying out of another activity linked with the movement of material objects in the air space of the Republic of Kazakhstan committed in the form of:
1) carrying out the activity without representation of the flight plan (upon flights in uncontrollable air space without notifying) and (or) without permission for carrying out of the activity constituting a security threat of the flights of aerial vehicles;
2) flight of the group of aerial vehicles, the number of which exceeds the number stated in the permission;
3) non-compliance with the regimes of using the air space by aerial vehicles;
4) landing of aerial vehicles on aerodrome that is not stated in the flight plan, except for the cases of forced landing and direction to the alternate aerodrome;
5) flight of the aerial vehicle without permission of the Ministry of defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan over the territory of forbidden zone and restricted area;
6) deviations from airways, route axes on distances of more established norms, except for cases of obvious threat to security of flights and prevention of aviation incident;
7) non-execution of commands of the bodies of air traffic service or air traffic control by users of the air space, with the exception of obvious security threat of flights and prevention of the aviation accidents, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifteen, on civil servants – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the subject that was an instrument for commission of the infraction.
Footnote.

Section 1325. Original section/article: 563. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1326. Original section/article: 564. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the flight safety rules
1. Placement of any signs and devices in the area of aerodrome being similar to the identification marks and devices being accepted for aerodrome identification, or firing of pyrotechnic products without the permission of the administration of airport, aerodrome, or installation of the objects that promote mass gathering of birds being dangerous for flights of aerial vehicles, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Failure to comply with the rules on placement of the night and day identification marks or devices on buildings and structures, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Damage of the aerodrome equipment, aerodrome signs, aerial vehicles and their equipment, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Passage or transit without the proper permission through the territory of airports (except for airport terminals), aerodromes, objects of radio and light supply of the flights, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one monthly calculation indices.
5. Creation of a situation by persons on the aircraft as passengers threatening the safety of a flight on board an aircraft, except for the case provided by part 1-2 of

Section 1327. Original section/article: 441. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
Footnote.

Section 1328. Original section/article: 564. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 19.04.2019 № 249-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1329. Original section/article: 565. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Work permit to the aviation personnel that did not pass professional training or that does not have the relevant qualification
Work permit to the aviation personnel that did not pass professional training or that does not have the relevant qualification, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants in amount of forty, on legal entities – in amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1330. Original section/article: 565-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements for medical examination in the sphere of civil aviation
1. The non-compliance by the aviation medical expert with requirements for medical examination in the sphere of civil aviation constituting danger to performance of flights –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
3. Concealment by the person who is directly connected with performance and ensuring flights of aircrafts, service of air traffic, information on existence at him of a disease known to him and constituting danger to performance of flights, during passing of medical examination –
subject to finea rate of hundred eighty monthly settlement indicators.
4. The action provided by a part of the third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to finea rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 30 is supplemented with

Section 1331. Original section/article: 565-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of t 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1332. Original section/article: 565-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution or inadequate execution of the plan of the correcting actions or non-presentation of the notice by the supplier of air navigation service
Non-execution or inadequate execution by the certificate holder of the supplier of air navigation service of the plan of the correcting actions at the scheduled time or non-presentation of the notice by the supplier of air navigation service of changes of functional systems of the organization of air traffics –
subject to fine small business entities at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of five hundred, on subjects of large business – of two thousand monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 30 is supplemented with

Section 1333. Original section/article: 565-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1334. Original section/article: 566. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of conduct on aerial vehicle
1. Violation of the rules of conduct on aerial vehicle committed in the form of non-execution of the regulations of a commander of aerial vehicle or other crew members by a person being on the aerial vehicle, if the acts of this person do not create security threat of the flight, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices.
2. Use of services of cellular, trunking communication onboard the aircraft at all stages of flight, radio-electronic means and high-frequency devices of household purpose at stages of taxing, ascent, landing approach of the aircraft, except for use of cellular communication and radio-electronic means onboard the aircraft in the autonomous mode "in flight", -
subjects prevention or a fine to a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
3. The acts provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1335. Original section/article: 566. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1336. Original section/article: 567. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure of the transporter to fulfil or improper fulfilment of obligations envisaged by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan in case of change of flight status
Footnote. The title of

Section 1337. Original section/article: 567. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure to fulfil or improper fulfilment by the transporter of obligations under the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan in case of change of flight status –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. The action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1338. Original section/article: 567. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1339. Original section/article: 568. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Intended concealment of aviation accident or incident
Intended concealment of aviation accident, incident or details on them or deviation of information, or damage or destruction of the aircraft or ground facilities of objective control or other evidential matters linked with the aviation accident or incident, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1340. Original section/article: 569. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the safety rules for operation of aerial vehicles
1. Violation of the procedure for access to performance of flights of aerial vehicles or the rules for training and performance of the flights, with the exception of the cases provided by parts two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight of this Article, if these actions carelessly entailed infliction of light harm to health of an injured party, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the right to operate the aerial vehicle (air traffic service, technical maintenance of aerial vehicle) for the term of six months, on civil servants – in amount of thirty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Take off on aerial vehicle in existence of the defects with which it is prohibited to begin the flight operations without the permission of the authorized organization in the field of civil aviation, or with the violation of the passenger capacity (cargo capacity) standards or of the restrictions on flying weight or aircraft center-of-gravity, shall –
entail a fine on a commander of the aerial vehicle in amount of forty monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the right to operate the aerial vehicle for the term of one year.
3. Operation of the aerial vehicle by a person that does not have the right of its operation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
4. Operation of the aerial vehicle that did not pass the state registration or not having the state and registering identification marks, or not recorded in the authorized authority in the field of civil aviation, or having knowingly false state and registering identification marks, shall – 
entail a fine on a commanding officer of the aerial vehicle in amount of forty monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the right to operate the aerial vehicle for the term of one year.
5. Operation of the aerial vehicle on which there are no vehicle and flight documents provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or operation of the aerial vehicle by a flight crew member that does not have the documents for the right to operate this type of the aerial vehicle, shall –
entail a fine in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
6. Permit to flight of the aerial vehicle that did not pass the state registration or that does not have state and registration of identification marks, or not registered with an authorized organization in the field of civil aviation, or which has deliberately forged state and registration identification marks, or which does not have a ship and flight documentation provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or on which the flight or cabin crew is not staffed, or which has malfunctions, with which its operation is prohibited without a permit issued by an authorized organization in the field of civil aviation, or on which the passenger capacity (cargo capacity) standards are violated, or restrictions on the flight weight or balance of an aircraft, as well as admission to service or maintenance of an aircraft by a person who does not have the right to do so or is in a state of intoxication, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of forty, on legal entities – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
7. Performance of flights by aerial vehicles on the board of which there are no search and emergency-rescue means provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of forty, on legal entities – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
8. Damage or loss of aviation personnel certificate, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1341. Original section/article: 569. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2019 № 249-VI (shall be enforced from 01.08.2019).

Section 1342. Original section/article: 570. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements for ensuring aviation safety
Footnote.

Section 1343. Original section/article: 570. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Non-execution or inadequate execution of requirements for ensuring aviation safety – 
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on officials – at a rate of forty, on legal entities – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. Failure to take measures on maintenance of the fences of the territory perimeter of airport, aerodrome, if these actions did not entail the aviation accident or incident, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1344. Original section/article: 570. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1345. Original section/article: 571. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of carriage of passengers, luggage and cargo
1. Infringement of the rules of international and domestic carriage of passengers, baggage and cargo, excluding carriage by road and railway transport, –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the rules of transportations of passengers and baggage by the motor transport –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices.
2-1. Violation of the rules of transportation of goods by the motor transport –
subjects a fine to subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of five, on small business entities – at a rate of ten, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty five monthly settlement indicators.
3. The actions provided by parts of the second and 2-1 present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on small business entities – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
4. Violation of the rules of transportation of goods, passengers, baggage and cargo baggage by rail –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five, on officials – at a rate of ten, on small business entities – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty five, on subjects of large business – at a rate of thirty five monthly settlement indicators.
5. Transportation of dangerous freights by vehicles or specialized vehicles with violation of the established rules, and it is equal without special permission to transportation of dangerous freight of classes 1, 6 and 7 –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
6. Passage of heavy vehicles with excess weight parameters, including those recorded using certified special control and measuring technical means and devices operating in automatic mode, as well as without a special permit -
subject to fine excess of admissible weight parameters from one to five tons on natural persons at a rate of forty, on small business entities – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators, at excess from five to ten tons on natural persons – at a rate of eighty, on small business entities – at a rate of hundred thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred eighty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred eighty monthly settlement indicators, at excess from ten tons and above on natural persons – at a rate of hundred eighty, on small business entities – at a rate of four hundred eighty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of seven hundred eighty, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators.
7. Passage of large-sized vehicles with excess overall parameters, including those recorded using certified special control and measuring technical means and devices operating in automatic mode, as well as without a special permit -
subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
8. Journey of large-size and (or) heavy vehicles with excess of one of parameters or a deviation from the route or terms specified in special permission –
subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
9. Excess of the admissible weight parameters by the consignor in excess of one ton and (or) dimensional parameters established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the course of loading of vehicle –
subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of thirty, on small business entities – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1346. Original section/article: 571. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1347. Original section/article: 571-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure by the transporter to furnish a bill of lading (act of measurement or weighing) or a waybill when transporting goods, passengers and luggage by road transport, or the performance of such transport without registering the bill of lading (act of measurement or weighing) or the waybill in the unified system for the management of transport documents
Footnote. The title of

Section 1348. Original section/article: 571-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure by the transporter to furnish a bill of lading (act of measurement or weighing) or a waybill when transporting cargo, passengers and luggage by road transport or transporting such cargo without registering the bill of lading (act of measurement or weighing) or waybill in the unified transport document management system, as well as failure to fill in these documents or knowingly entering inaccurate information in them–
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on small business entities – at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of sixty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of thirty, on small business entities – at a rate of sixty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of seventy, on subjects of large business – at a rate of eighty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 30 is supplemented with

Section 1349. Original section/article: 571-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1350. Original section/article: 572. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the regime of labour and rest of drivers upon carrying out of automobile carriage of passengers, luggage or cargo
1. Operation of mechanical transport vehicles without the control devices for recording the regimes of labour and rest of drivers (tachographs) or with such properly operating devices being turned off or with unfilled diagram sheets, or with application of previously used diagram sheets or without the use of electronic cards in case of applying electronic (digital) tachographs, and equally without maintenance of the daily registry sheets of the regime of labour and rest of the drivers (in case of defect of the control device) upon carrying out of:
1) automobile carriage of hazardous cargo;
2) international automobile carriage of passengers, luggage and cargo;
3) long-distance interregional regular automobile transportations of passengers and baggage;
4) international, inter-oblast, inter-district (international intra-oblast) non-scheduled automobile carriage of passengers and luggage, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices for individuals, ten monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, twenty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized enterprises and fifty monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
2. Violation of the regime of labour and rest by the drivers of mechanical transport vehicles upon carrying out of automobile carriage of passengers, luggage or cargo, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1351. Original section/article: 572. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1352. Original section/article: 573. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the Rules for applying the authorization system of automobile carriage in the Republic of Kazakhstan in international traffic
1. Carriage by a foreign carrier of international road transport on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan without a permit or a special permit in cases envisaged by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on road transport, as well as using a permit that does not correspond to the type of carriage, – 
shall entail a penalty in the amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Use of foreign permit to mechanical transport vehicle by a domestic carrier that is not specified in the records of access of the domestic carrier, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
3. Transfer of the forms of foreign permits by one domestic carrier to another domestic carrier, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
4. Violation of the coordinated route plan by a driver upon carrying out of carriage of passengers and luggage in international traffic, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
5. The use by a foreign transporter of a domestic permit, not completed or completed in contravention of the rules of application of the permit system for road transport in the Republic of Kazakhstan in international traffic, 
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. Implementation of the international automobile transportation in the presence of not executed notice issued by authorized body of transport control of member states of the Eurasian Economic Union and also a deviation from the route specified in the notice – 
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
7. Implementation of replacement (peretsepk) of the tractor or the truck on other tractor or the truck which isn't registered in the state of registration of carrier, –
subject to fine drivers of vehicles at a rate of two hundred, on legal entities – at a rate of five hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote,

Section 1353. Original section/article: 573. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1354. Original section/article: 574. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence of the lists of passengers at drivers of mechanical transport vehicles upon carrying out of unscheduled international automobile carriage of passengers and luggage
Footnote.

Section 1355. Original section/article: 574. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1356. Original section/article: 575. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of automobile carriage in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan by automobile transport vehicles registered in a foreign state
Carriage of passengers, luggage or cargo by automobile transport vehicles registered in a territory of a foreign state between the points located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of carriage by the automobile transport vehicles temporary imported to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1357. Original section/article: 575. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1358. Original section/article: 576. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence of the contract of carriage at drivers of mechanical transport vehicles upon carrying out of unscheduled automobile carriage of passengers and luggage in the intra-republican communication
Footnote.

Section 1359. Original section/article: 576. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1360. Original section/article: 577. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carriage of passengers between the points in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon carrying out of regular carriage in international traffic
1. Organization of selling travel documents (tickets) for carriage of passengers between the points in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon carrying out of regular carriage in international traffic, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Carriage of passengers by mechanical transport vehicles between the points in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon carrying out of regular carriage in the international traffic, shall –
entail a fine on drivers of mechanical transport vehicles in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
4. The action provided by a part two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on drivers of automobile transport vehicles in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1361. Original section/article: 578. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules ensuring the safety of traffic on a marine transport
1. Violation of the established order of maneuvering and movement of the vessels on a marine transport, non-compliance with the prescribed speed of movement, requirements for giving audio and light alarms, bearing ship lights and signs, premeditated stoppage or dockage of a vessel in forbidden places, violation of the procedure for vessel towing, as well as failure to perform the compulsory requirements of a dispatcher, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seven monthly calculation indices.
2. Performance of diving operations without the proper permit in harbor waters or non-compliance with the rules for signaling during these works, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1362. Original section/article: 579. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of the structures and devices of signaling and communicating on a marine transport
Damage of the structures and devices of signaling and communicating on a marine transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1363. Original section/article: 580. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules ensuring safety of passengers in vessels of a marine and river transport, as well as small size vessels
Absence, understaffing or use of the rescue and emergency means and equipment with the expired term of certification on the vessels of a marine and river transport, as well as small size vessels, violation of the requirements on equipping the gangways and ladders on the vessels of a marine and river transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1364. Original section/article: 581. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for releasing a vessel in sailing or permit for operation of the vessel by the persons that do not have the relevant diploma (certificate, identity document)
1. Release (route) of a vessel (except for the small size vessel) in sailing without the documents certifying belonging of the vessel, its seaworthiness with the unstaffed crew team, upon non-conformance of the technical condition of the vessel to available documents, with the violation of established rules for loading, passenger capacity standards, restrictions in the area and conditions for sailing, as well as permit for operation of the vessel or its mechanisms and equipment by the persons that do not have the relevant diploma (certificate, identity document), shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Release of small size vessels in sailing that are not registered in established manner or did not pass technical inspection (examination), or that have the defects with which their operation is prohibited, or unstaffed with equipment, or re-equipped without the relevant permit, as well as the permit for operation of the small size vessels by the persons that do not have the right of operation of these vessels, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1365. Original section/article: 582. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for operation of vessels, including small size vessels, as well as operation of the vessel, including small size vessel by the person that does not have the right of operation
1. Operation of a vessel (including small size vessel) that is not registered in established manner or did not pass technical inspection (examination), or that does not have the side numbers and designations, or that is reequipped without the relevant permit, or that has defects with which its operation is prohibited, or with violation of the rules for loading of passenger capacity standards, restrictions in the area and conditions of sailing, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. Operation of a vessel, including small size vessel by the person that does not have the right of operation of this vessel, including small size vessel, and equally operation of the vessel, including small size vessel, by the person that does not have the document confirming the right of operation of this vessel, including small size vessel or transfer of operation of such vessel, including small size vessel to the person that does not have the right of operation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Operation of a vessel, including small size vessel in the absence of vessel documents, as well as with the violation of requirements submitted to the vessel documents, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
4. Operation of a vessel, including small size vessel with knowingly false or forged registering side numbers and designations, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
5. Control of the small size vessel without the put-on and fastened individual saving means on the faces which are on the small size vessel or the towed swimming means –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1366. Original section/article: 582. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1367. Original section/article: 583. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of swimming on internal waterways
Footnote.

Section 1368. Original section/article: 583. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Violation by boatmasters of vessels (except undersized) the traffic regulation and giving sound and light signals, executions of ship fires and signs and also damage of port and hydraulic engineering constructions and the equipment –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Excess of the established speed by navigators of small size vessels and other floating objects, non-compliance with the requirements, navigation marks, premeditated stoppage or dockage of a vessel in forbidden places, damage of water development facilities or technical means and signs of the shipping and navigation circumstances, violation of the rules for maneuvering, giving audio alarms, bearing of side lights and marks, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two monthly calculation indices..
3. Violation of the other rules for using small size vessels by the navigators of the small size vessels, shall –
subject to fine a rate of one monthly settlement indicator.
Footnote.

Section 1369. Original section/article: 583. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1370. Original section/article: 584. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules ensuring security of operation of vessels on inland water ways
1. It is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
2. Destruction, damage, breakage, illegal displacement of floating and non-floating aids to navigation, communication and signalling, violation of the rules for maintenance, operation and established work regime of the navigational equipment on bridges, dams and other water development facilities, installation of signs, structures, sources of audio and light alarms without the proper permit (coordination), creating noises in identifying the navigation marks and alarms, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Discharge of rubbish and other subjects overboard, shall –
subject to fine a rate of one monthly settlement indicator.
Footnote.

Section 1371. Original section/article: 584. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1372. Original section/article: 585. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of loading, unloading and warehousing of freights in river ports and on piers
1. Violation of specifications of loading, unloading and warehousing of freights in river ports and on piers, specifications of fastening of freights in the vessel, not execution of the act of loading (unloading) of freight –
subject prevention.
2. The actions provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of two monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1373. Original section/article: 585. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1374. Original section/article: 586. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of using the bases (structures) for dockages of small size vessels
1. Violation of the standards for basing small size vessels, conditions and technical requirements for a safety operation of the bases (structures), and equally maintenance of the small size vessels on the mentioned bases (structures) that are not registered in established manner on the bases (structures) for dockage of the small size vessels, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-compliance with the established control regime of releasing small size vessels in sailing and return to the base, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1375. Original section/article: 587. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the requirements on operation of port structures
Violation or non-compliance with the terms for conduct of regular and periodical technical inspections of the port structures, being in defective condition or non-conformance of the mooring devices and fenders of berthing facilities to own characteristics, as well as the absence of examination record book of the port structures and passport of a sea port, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1376. Original section/article: 588. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for investigation of accidents and traffic accident with vessels, including small size vessels
1. Non-representation of information by a ship captain, ship owner, civil servant of water development facilities to the transport control bodies on emergency case with a vessel of marine transport, on traffic accident with a vessel of river transport, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-representation of information by a navigator or ship owner to the transport control bodies on traffic accident with a small size vessel, shall –
entail a fine on individuals and civil servants in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-representation or untimely representation of materials, certificates, explanatory notes, extracts from vessel documents or other information required for conduct of investigation upon request of the body or civil servant conducting the investigation of emergency case or traffic accident, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants – in amount of ten, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1377. Original section/article: 589. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of fire security in transport
1. Violation of the rules of fire security established in transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1378. Original section/article: 590. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for operation of transport vehicles
1. Operation of the registered vehicle with unreadable or non-compliant to the requirements of the national standard or the state registration plates (plate) established out of the provided places –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Operation of a transport vehicle without the state registering number plates (plate) or after prohibition of its operation, or that is not registered in the established manner, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2-1. The action provided for in part two of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
entails a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the right to drive vehicles for a period of one year.
3. Installation of knowingly false or forged state registering number plates (plate) on a transport vehicle, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifteen, on officials – at a rate of fifty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of four hundred monthly settlement indicators.
4. Driving (I am familiar) with obviously false or counterfeit state registration registration plates, and driving with the state registration registration plates equipped with use of the devices and materials interfering identification of the state registration registration plates (sign) or allowing them is equal to alter or to hide, –
entails administrative arrest for up to five days and deprivation of the right to drive vehicles for a period of one year.
4-1. An action provided for in part four of this Article committed by a person to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 1379. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code does not apply, –
entails a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices and deprivation of the right to drive vehicles for a period of one year.
5. Operation of a transport vehicle non-confirming the requirements of technical regulations, national standards, as well as with the faults or conditions under which the exploitation of vehicles shall be prohibited, with the exception of cases provided by part six of this Article, –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
6. Operation of the transport vehicles that have the defects of braking system, steering control, tow hitch, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
7. Operation of the transport vehicle being reequipped without the relevant permit, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
8. Release of the mechanical transport vehicles into operation that did not pass the pre-trip (pre-shift) technical inspection, as well as permit to operation to the driver that did not pass pre-trip (pre-shift) medical inspection, upon carrying out of regular or unscheduled automobile carriage of passengers, luggage, as well as carriage of cargo, shall –
subject to fine officials and small business entities at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
9. Operation of the transport vehicle that did not pass the state or compulsory technical inspection, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
10. The actions provided by parts of the first, fifth, sixth, seventh and ninth present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Note. The transport vehicles in this chapter of the Code shall be regarded as all the types of automobiles, tractors and other self-propelled vehicles, trams, trolleys, as well as motorcycles and other mechanical transport vehicles.
Footnote.

Section 1380. Original section/article: 590. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1381. Original section/article: 591. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Use of phone or radio station by a driver upon operation of a transport vehicle
1. Use of phone or radio station by a driver upon operation of a transport vehicle, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Note. During operation of a transport vehicle, it is allowed to use phone or radio station by using headphones or speaker phone.

Section 1382. Original section/article: 592. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Excess of the established speed of the movement
Footnote.

Section 1383. Original section/article: 592. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Excess of the established speed of the movement of the vehicle at a size from ten to twenty kilometers per hour –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
2. Exceeding of established driving speed of the transport vehicle in a range from twenty to forty kilometres per hour, shall –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
3. Exceeding the established speed limit of a vehicle by forty to sixty kilometers per hour —
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
3-1. Exceeding the established speed limit of a vehicle by sixty or more kilometers per hour —
shall entail a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided by parts of the second and third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators.
5. The action provided for in part 3-1 of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty —
shall entail a fine in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1384. Original section/article: 592. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1385. Original section/article: 593. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with requirements for transportation of the passengers and freights, to use of seat belts or crash helmets provided by traffic regulations
1. Failure to observe the rules of carriage of passengers and cargoes, excluding cases envisaged in paragraph 1-2 of this Article, –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
1-1. Forcible debussing of a person under the age of sixteen, traveling unaccompanied by his parents and (or) his legal representative, –
entails a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
1-2. Transportation of passengers not in the cabin (saloon) of a vehicle, as well as allowing them to stick out of the window openings and hatches of a vehicle, opening doors while travelling -
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-compliance with instructions for use seat belts or crash helmets –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
3. The actions provided by parts of the first and second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1386. Original section/article: 593. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1387. Original section/article: 594. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for passage of crossroads or intercrossing of carriage way
1. Driving on a crossroad or intercrossing of carriage way in the case of formed jam that lead to creation of the obstacle (jam) for the flow of transport vehicles in a transverse direction, shall –
Subjects to prevention or a fine a rate of three monthly settlement indicators.
2. Non-performance of the requirement of the road traffic rules to give the road to a transport vehicle enjoying the right of priority of passing the crossroads, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
3. It is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication). 
4. The actions provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of seven monthly settlement indicators.
5. The action provided by a part of the second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1388. Original section/article: 594. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1389. Original section/article: 595. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of maneuvering
1. Non-performance of the requirement of the road traffic rules to set a signal before moving, turning or stopping, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. The movement by a backing in places where such maneuvers are forbidden, –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-performance of the requirement of the road traffic rules to give the road to a transport vehicle enjoying the right of priority of moving, with the exception of cases provided by a part two of

Section 1390. Original section/article: 598. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided by parts of the second and third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1391. Original section/article: 595. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1392. Original section/article: 596. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of situation of a transport vehicle on a carriage way, opposite pass-by or overdrive
1. Moving on pedestrian footpaths, waysides or sidewalks in violation of the road traffic rules, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. Violation of the rules of an arrangement of the vehicle on a carriageway, counter travel or overtaking, and is equal crossing of an organized transport or pedestrian column or occupation of the place in her –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
3. Departure on the party of a carriageway intended for oncoming traffic in cases if it is forbidden by traffic regulations, including interfaced to a turn or turn, –
subjects deprivation of the right for control of vehicles for the term of six months.
3-1. The act envisaged by part three of this Article, committed by persons to whom deprivation of a special right does not apply under part four of

Section 1393. Original section/article: 46. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, 
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4. The actions provided by parts one and two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4-1. The act envisaged in part three of this article, which resulted in damage to vehicles, cargoes, roads, road and other structures or other property, causing material damage,
shall entail deprivation of the right to drive vehicles for a period of nine months.
5. The action provided by a part three of this Article committed by a person deprived of the right of operation of a transport vehicle, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1394. Original section/article: 596. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 7/3/2017 № 83-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1395. Original section/article: 597. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for stopping or parking of transport vehicles
1. Violation of the rules for stopping or parking vehicles, including in places equipped with electric charging stations, with the exception of cases provided for in parts two and three of this article -
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
2. Violation of the rules for stopping or parking of vehicles on a sidewalk, as well as stopping or parking of vehicles on garden beds, children’s playgrounds and sports grounds, shall –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
3. Violation of the rules for stopping or parking of transport vehicles on a carriage way that entailed creation of the obstacles for moving of other transport vehicles, shall –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
4. Violation of the rules for stopping or parking vehicles in places designated for stopping or parking vehicles of persons with disabilities, –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
4-1. Avoidance from payment for parking at the places equipped by the special certified devices designated for taking payment for parking and recording time of parking of transport vehicles determined by the local executive bodies of oblasts, cities of republican significance and the capital, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of one monthly calculation indices.
4-2. The action provided by a part 4-1 of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of two monthly calculation indices.
5. The actions provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
5-1. The actions provided by parts of the second and third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
6. The action provided by a part four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subjects to fine rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1396. Original section/article: 597. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 18.07.2024 № 127-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1397. Original section/article: 598. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-provision of a priority while moving to the vehicle of operative and special services with the turned on special light and sound signals 
1. Non-provision of a priority while moving to the vehicle of operative and special services as well as to a vehicle that has special color schemes, inscriptions and designations printed on the outer surfaces with a flashing beacon and a special sound signal turned on at the same time, shall -
entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices or community service for a period of twenty hours.
Footnote.

Section 1398. Original section/article: 598. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1399. Original section/article: 599. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Driving through red traffic light or through restricted gesture of a traffic-controller
1. Driving through red traffic light or through restricted gesture of a traffic-controller, with the exception of cases provided by a part one of

Section 1400. Original section/article: 607. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1401. Original section/article: 599. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1402. Original section/article: 600. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-provision of a priority while moving to pedestrians or other road traffic participants
1. Non-fulfillment of the requirements of the road traffic rules to give the road to pedestrians or other road traffic participants, with the exception of the drivers of transport vehicles taking priority while moving, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of fifteen monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1403. Original section/article: 600. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1404. Original section/article: 601. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-compliance with the requirements prescribed by road signs or marking of a carriage way
1. Non-compliance with the requirements prescribed by road signs or marking of a carriage way, with the exception of cases provided by the other Articles of this chapter, shall –
subject to fine a rate of three monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1405. Original section/article: 601. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 7/3/2017 № 83-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1406. Original section/article: 602. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation by drivers of vehicles of instructions for use external light devices and (or) sound signals, use of the alarm system
Footnote.

Section 1407. Original section/article: 602. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Violation by drivers of vehicles of instructions for use external light devices during daylight hours and (or) sound signals –
entails a warning.
1-1. Violation by drivers of vehicles of instructions for use external light devices in night-time or in the conditions of insufficient visibility, use of the alarm system and the sign of an emergency stop –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
3. The actions provided by a part of 1-1 present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine a rate of seven monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1408. Original section/article: 602. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1409. Original section/article: 603. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for installation of devices on a transport vehicle for giving special light and (or) audio alarms or illegal marking of the special colour schemes of the automobiles of operative and special services
1. Installation of the lights with red colour or reflective arrangements of red color on a front element of a transport vehicle, and equally the lights the colour and work regime of which do not conform to the requirements of admission of the transport vehicles to operation, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of fifteen, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of seventy, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred fifty, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators, with confiscation of the specified devices and devices.
2. Installation of devices for giving special light and (or) audio alarms (with the exception of security alarm) on a transport vehicle without the relevant permit, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty five, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators, with confiscation of the specified devices.
3. Illegal marking of the special color schemes of the automobiles of operative and special services on exterior surface of a transport vehicle, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty five, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – of one thousand monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1410. Original section/article: 603. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1411. Original section/article: 604. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for training of drivers of transport vehicles
Footnote.

Section 1412. Original section/article: 604. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1413. Original section/article: 605. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about traffic
Footnote.

Section 1414. Original section/article: 605. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1415. Original section/article: 606. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the traffic rules by a road traffic participant that entailed creation of emergency situation
1. Violation of the traffic rules by a road traffic participant that entailed creation of emergency situation, i.e. that forced the other road traffic participants to change speed, direction of movement dramatically, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail the deprivation of the right of operation of transport vehicle for the term of six months.

Section 1416. Original section/article: 607. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for transit of railroad crossing
1. Crossing of a raiLawy track out of the raiLawy crossing, departure on the raiLawy crossing at the closed or closed barrier or at the forbidding signal of the traffic light or the person on duty on moving –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail the deprivation of the right of operation of transport vehicle for the tem of six months.
3. Actions envisaged by parts one and two of this article, resulting in damage to vehicles, cargoes, road and other structures or other property, causing material losses, –
shall entail deprivation of the right to drive motor vehicles for a period of nine months.
Footnote.

Section 1417. Original section/article: 607. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1418. Original section/article: 608. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Operation of a transport vehicle by the driver being in a state of alcohol, narcotic and (or) substance abuse intoxication, and equally transfer of operation of the transport vehicle to the person being in a state of alcohol, narcotic and (or) substance abuse intoxication
1. Operation of a transport vehicle by the driver being in a state of alcohol, narcotic and (or) substance abuse intoxication, and equally transfer of operation of the transport vehicle to the person being in a state of alcohol, narcotic and (or) substance abuse intoxication, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for fifteen days and deprivation of the right of operation of vehicle for the term of seven years.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1419. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
3. The actions provided by a part one of this Article that entailed infliction of harm to health to an injured party that do not have the signs of a criminally punishable act, or damage of the transport vehicles, cargo, road and other structures or another property, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for a term of twenty days and deprivation of the right of operation of vehicles for the term up to seven years.
3-1. Actions provided by part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after expiration of the term of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for a term of twenty days and deprivation of the right of operation of vehicles for the term up to eight years.
3-2. Actions provided by part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after expiration of the term of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for a term of twenty days and deprivation of the right of operation of vehicles for the term up to nine years.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1420. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1421. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
6. Actions envisaged in parts one and three of this article, committed by persons who do not have the right to drive motor vehicles,
shall entail administrative arrest for twenty days.
7. The actions provided by a part six of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after expiration of the term of the administrative sanction provided by a part six of this Article, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term up to thirty days.
8. The actions provided by parts six and seven of this Article committed by the persons to which the administrative arrest in accordance with a part two of

Section 1422. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is not applied, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1423. Original section/article: 608. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1424. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1425. Original section/article: 609. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of regular automobile carriage of passengers and luggage without the relevant certificate confirming the right to service the routes of mentioned carriage
Footnote.

Section 1426. Original section/article: 609. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1427. Original section/article: 610. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The violation by drivers of vehicles of traffic regulations which has entailed infliction of harm to human health, damage of vehicles or other property
Footnote.

Section 1428. Original section/article: 610. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. The violation by drivers of vehicles of traffic regulations which has entailed the damage of vehicles, freights, roads, road and other constructions or other property which has caused material damage –
shall entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. An act envisaged by part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, or which has caused minor harm to the health of the victim, – 
subject to fine a rate of forty monthly settlement indicators or deprivation of the right of driving for a period of up to nine months.
3. The actions provided by parts of the first and second present article, made by the person who doesn't have or deprived the right of driving – 
subject to fine a rate of sixty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1429. Original section/article: 610. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1430. Original section/article: 611. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligations by a driver due to traffic accident
1. Non-fulfillment of the obligations provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the scope of road traffic by a driver due to traffic accident the participant of which he (she) is, with the exception of the cases provided by a part two of this Article, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Leaving the place of the traffic accident in violation of the road traffic rules by a driver the participant of which he (she) was, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or deprivation of the right of operation of vehicles for the term up to one year.
3. The action provided by a part two of this Article committed by the person being deprived of the right of operation of transport vehicle or that did not have the right of operation of transport vehicles, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term of thirty days.
Note. The person that left the place of traffic accident due to rendering of medical assistance to an injured party shall be released from the liability in accordance with this Article.
Footnote.

Section 1431. Original section/article: 611. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Articled 612. Operation of transport vehicle without the documents and that do not have the rights of operation
1. Driving a vehicle by a driver who does not have a driver's license or a temporary license issued in exchange for a driver's license for the right to drive, with the exception of those issued in the Republic of Kazakhstan if he has a document confirming the driver's identity; registration documents for a vehicle, with the exception of those issued in the Republic of Kazakhstan; other documents on the vehicle established by the legislation, –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Operation of transport vehicle by the person that does not have the right of its operation (except for driving lessons), and equally operation of transport vehicle by the driver that does not have the right of operation of the relevant category of transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. Operation of transport vehicle by a driver being deprived of the right of operation of transport vehicle, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or an administrative arrest for ten days.
4. The actions provided by a part of the second present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
4-1. The actions provided by a part of the third present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, – 
entail a fine in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for fifteen days.
5. Transfer of operation of the transport vehicle to the person that does not have the right of operation (with the exception of cases of driving instruction in accordance with the established rules), or to the person being deprived of the right of operation of transport vehicle, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
6. The action provided by a part five of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seventy monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1432. Original section/article: 612. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1433. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 01.02.2021 № 1-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1434. Original section/article: 613. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-performance of the requirements of an employee of the bodies of internal affairs (police), transport control on the checkpoints of mechanical transport vehicles through the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan and on the posts of transport control in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, military police, avoidance from passing certification of the state of alcohol, drug and (or) substance abuse intoxication
1. Non-performance of the legal requirement of an employee of the internal affairs authorities (police), military police (exceptionally by the person operating the vehicle of the national security authorities, Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan) of transport control authorities at transport control posts on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan on stopping of vehicle, shall –
entails a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to three days.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
3. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entails deprivation of the right to drive vehicles for a period of one year and administrative arrest for up to five days.
3-1. The action provided by part one of the present article, made by the person who doesn't have the right of management or deprived of the right of control of vehicles –
entails a fine in the amount of sixty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to fifteen days.
4. Non-performance of the legal requirement of an employee of the bodies of internal affairs (police), military police (exceptionally by the person that operates the transport vehicle of the national security bodies, Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan) on passing certification of the state of alcohol, drug and (or) substance abuse intoxication in accordance with the established procedure, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term of fifteen days and deprivation of the right of operation of transport vehicle for the term of eight years.
5. The action provided by a part four of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after expiration of the term of administrative sanction, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term of twenty days and deprivation of the right of operation of transport vehicle for the term of nine years.
6. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1435. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
7. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1436. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
8. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1437. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
). 
9. Action provided by part four of this Article committed by the persons not having the right to operate of vehicle, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term of twenty days.
10. the action provided by a part nine of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after expiration of the term of the administrative sanction provided by a part nine of this Article, shall –
entail the administrative arrest for the term of thirty days.
11. Actions provided by parts nine and ten of this article, committed by persons to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 1438. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall not apply -
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
12. Leaving by the driver of a cabin (salon) of the vehicle in case of his stop the employee of law-enforcement bodies (police), military police (only the person steering the military vehicle) without his permission and also failure to meet requirements about an exit from a cabin (salon) of the vehicle –
subject to fine the driver at a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
13. The actions provided by a part twelve of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine the driver at a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
Note. The requirement of employees of the bodies of internal affairs (police), transport control, military police in the official uniform on stopping of the transport vehicle shall be expressed by signalling with a gesture of hand or traffic baton with the simultaneous whistle signal or with the use of loudspeaker system. The alarms shall be understandable for a driver and set in due time so their performance does not create the emergency situation.
Footnote.

Section 1439. Original section/article: 613. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 03.07.2017 № 83-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1440. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1441. Original section/article: 614. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Creation of the obstacles for movement of transport vehicles
Deliberate creation of obstacles for the movement of vehicles, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in a mount of three, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1442. Original section/article: 614. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1443. Original section/article: 615. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the traffic rules by pedestrians and other road traffic participants
1. Non-performance by pedestrians and other participants of traffic of requirements of traffic regulations –
subject to fine a rate of two monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article that entailed infliction of harm to health of an injured party that does not have the signs of a criminally punishable act or that inflicted material damage, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
4. The action provided by a part two of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or community service for a period of twelve hours, or administrative detention for three days.
5. The presence of a passenger not in the cabin (salon) of a transport means while it is in motion 
shall entail a fine in the amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Note. For the purposes of this article, other road traffic participants shall be understood to mean persons riding electric scooters, bicycles and horse-drawn carts, as well as herdsmen driving pack animals, riding animals or herds along the road, and passengers in vehicles.
Footnote.

Section 1444. Original section/article: 615. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall enter into force six months after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1445. Original section/article: 616. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of organizing and conducting compulsory technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers
1. Violation of the rules of organizing and conducting compulsory technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers committed in the form of:
1) issuance of the diagnostic card of technical inspection with the indication of parameters that do not conform to the technical inspection of the motor vehicles and their trailers established upon conduct of the inspection of activity of the operator of technical inspection;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
3) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
5) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
6) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
7) issuance of the diagnostic card of technical inspection by the operator of technical inspection without conducting compulsory technical inspection;
8) conduct of compulsory technical inspection without the use of control and diagnostic equipment or with defective control and diagnostic equipment and (or) that did not pass the adjustment;
9) failure to ensure the archival storage of video files of the daily video recording within six months from the date of conduct of compulsory technical inspection;
10) absence of video recording of the procedure for conduct of compulsory technical inspection or photographic recording of the transport vehicle in a diagnostic card of technical inspection;
11) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication); 
12) failure to enter, and equally entering of inaccurate and (or) incomplete details to the single informational system of compulsory technical inspection of the motor vehicles and their trailers;
13) non-conformance of the production premise and territory of a centre for technical inspection to the requirements established by the national standards, –
shall entail a fine for small business entities in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of seventy, for large business entities - in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
2. Combination of rendering of the services on conducting compulsory technical inspection and repair, technical maintenance of the motor vehicles and their trailers, shall –
shall entail a fine for officials, small business entities in the amount of thirty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of forty, for large business entities - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of the permit for the activity of the technical inspection operator.
3. Rendering of services on repair and technical maintenance of the motor vehicles and their trailers in a territory of the centre of technical inspection, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
4. Providing knowingly false information when obtaining a permit for the activity of the technical inspection operator -
entails a fine for officials, small business entities in the amount of thirty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of forty, for large business entities - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of the permit for the activity of the technical inspection operator.
5. The acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entails a fine for officials, small business entities in the amount of seventy, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of ninety, for large business entities - in the amount of one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices, with the deprivation of the permit for the activity of the technical inspection operator.
Footnote.

Section 1446. Original section/article: 616. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1447. Original section/article: 617. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release of the transport vehicles having technical defects in operation and other violations of the rules of operation
1. Non-performance of the requirements, established road traffic safety rules by the persons being liable for technical condition and operation of the transport vehicles, with the exception of the cases provided by

Section 1448. Original section/article: 619. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions that entailed the infliction of the light harm to health of an injured party or damage of transport vehicles, cargo, road or other structures or another property, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1449. Original section/article: 617. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1450. Original section/article: 618. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Recognition or issue of the certificates or other documents confirming compliance of vehicles in defiance of the established norms in the field of providing requirements to safety of vehicles
Footnote.

Section 1451. Original section/article: 618. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Recognition or issuance of certificates or other documents confirming the conformance of transport vehicles in violation of the established standards in the field of ensuring the safety requirements of the transport vehicles being the ground for their admission of participation in road traffic, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the right of engagement in this activity for the term of one year.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article that entailed damage of transport vehicles or another property, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the right of engagement in this activity for the term of two years.
3. The actions provided by a part one of this Article that entailed infliction of the bodily damage of light and average gravity, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices with the deprivation of the right of engagement in this activity for the term of three years.
Footnote.

Section 1452. Original section/article: 618. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1453. Original section/article: 619. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Permit to operation of transport vehicle to the driver that does not have the right of operation of transport vehicles, and equally the relevant category
1. Permit to operation of transport vehicle to the driver that does not have or being deprived of the right of operation of transport vehicle, and equally the relevant category by the person being liable for technical condition and operation of the transport vehicles, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same action that entailed infliction of a light harm to health of an injured party or damage of transport vehicles, cargo, road or other structures or another property, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of fifty, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of seventy, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1454. Original section/article: 619-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The admission to driving of the driver who is in state of intoxication
1. The admission the person responsible for technical condition and operation of vehicles, to driving of the driver who is in a state alcoholic narcotic or an inhalant intoxication, –
subject to fine officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of sixty monthly settlement indicators.
2. The same action which has entailed causing to the health which was injured a little harm or damage of vehicles, freights, road or other constructions or other property –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of seventy, on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote. Chapter 30 is supplemented with

Section 1455. Original section/article: 619-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1456. Original section/article: 619-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Driving an electric scooter on the carriageway by a person who does not hold, or has been deprived of a driving licence 
1. Permission granted by a legal entity or sole trader engaged in the business of renting out electric scooters for a person who does not hold, or has been disqualified from holding, a driving licence to ride an electric scooter on the carriageway, –
shall be punishable by a fine of twenty-five times the monthly calculation index.
2. The same action, where it results in minor bodily harm to the victim or damage to vehicles, goods, road or other infrastructure, or other property, shall incur a fine of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 30 has been supplemented with

Section 1457. Original section/article: 619-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
under Law № 247-VIII of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 30.12.2025 (shall take effect six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1458. Original section/article: 620. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of other requirements imposed on road users 
1. Violation of traffic regulations, basic provisions for admitting vehicles to operation that are not listed in this chapter of the Code -
shall entail a warning. 
2. The action provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty -
entails a fine in the amount of three monthly calculation indices.
Note. When drawing up a protocol, it is indicated which traffic regulation was violated.
Footnote.

Section 1459. Original section/article: 620. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1460. Original section/article: 621. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of carriage of hazardous substances or subjects by transport
1. Violation of the rules of carriage of hazardous substances or hand-luggage subjects by railway transport, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of one monthly calculation index.
2. Violation of the rules of carriage of hazardous substances or subjects by marine and river transport, as well as non-fulfillment of the obligations by civil servants on registration of the operations with hazardous substances or subjects in the relevant documents, entering of inaccurate records or unlawful refusal to represent such documents to the relevant civil servants, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Violation of the rules of carriage of hazardous substances or subjects in aerial vehicles, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of mentioned substances and subjects.
4. Carrying of explosive substances or subjects in a bus, tram, trolley, taxi bus, as well as their delivery in luggage or in storage room of automobile transportation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices.

Section 1461. Original section/article: 622. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of using public urban and suburban transport
1. Violation of the rules of using tram, trolley, bus of urban and suburban communication or taxi committed in the form of transit on footboards and other projecting parts of transport vehicle, entering and quit while moving, obstruction of opening and closing doors, carrying of cutting items without the relevant packing, as well as items and things polluting the passenger compartment and clothes of passengers, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one monthly calculation index.
2. Avoidance from paying passenger fare in public transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1462. Original section/article: 622. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1463. Original section/article: 623. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Ticketless carriage of passengers
Ticketless carriage of passengers:
1) on international trains, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seven monthly calculation indices;
2) on trains of intra-republican communication shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices;
3) in a tram, trolleybus, city and suburban bus and minibus, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices;
4) in the bus of international, intercity interregional, interdistrict (intercity intraregional) and intradistrict communication –
entail a fine in amount of seven monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1464. Original section/article: 623. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1465. Original section/article: 624. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of the organization of sale of travel documents (tickets) on raiLawy transport
Footnote.

Section 1466. Original section/article: 624. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1467. Original section/article: 624-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for organizing the sale of travel documents (tickets) on railway transport in the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of the rules for organizing the sale of travel documents (tickets) on railway transport in the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed in the form of resale, illegal sale of travel documents (tickets) on railway transport, as well as assistance in the resale, illegal sale of travel documents (tickets) on railway transport, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of one hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of two hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Actions provided by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of three hundred, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of four hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 30 is supplemented by

Section 1468. Original section/article: 624-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 295-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1469. Original section/article: 625. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of protection of cargo on railway, marine, river and automobile transport 
1. Damage of a rolling stock, containers, floating and other transport vehicles designated for carriage of cargo, as well as transportation appliances, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
2. Damage of seals and locking devices of goods wagons, automobiles, automobile trailers, containers, holds and other cargo spaces of the floating crafts, breakage of seals from them, damage of separate cargo items and their packing, packs, fences of cargo sites, railway stations, cargo automobile stations, container terminals (grounds), ports (berths) and warehouses that are used for performance of the operations linked with cargo operations, as well as staying without the relevant permit in a territory of the cargo sites, container terminals (grounds), cargo districts (fields), ports (berths), locks and warehouses mentioned above, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1470. Original section/article: 626. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules on protection of cargo on air transport
1. Damage of seals and locking devices of containers, breakage of seals from them, damage of separate cargo items and their packing, packs, fences of warehouses that are used for performance of the operations linked with cargo operations on air transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Damage of containers and transport vehicles designated for carriage of cargo on air transport, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1471. Original section/article: 627. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of operation of tractors, other self-propelled vehicles and equipment
Violation of the rules of operation of tractors, other self-propelled vehicles and equipment, with the exception of the rules provided by Articles 333, 334, 590, 610, 617, 619 of this Code, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three monthly calculation indices.

Section 1472. Original section/article: 628. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Untimely payment of passenger fare on toll automobile roads (fields)
Untimely payment of passenger fare on toll automobile roads (fields), shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on legal entities – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1473. Original section/article: 629. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Systematic violation of the rules of operation and road traffic by individuals operating transport vehicles
Footnote.

Section 1474. Original section/article: 629. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1475. Original section/article: 630. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage of roads, railroad crossings and other road structures
1. Damage of roads, railroad crossings and other structures or technical means of regulating road traffic, including pollution of the road surface or driving of animals outside the special allocated places and through the roads with improved surface, as well as visibility restriction of the means of regulating road traffic due to installation of different structures or planting of green plantings, or their untimely cutting, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. The actions specified in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small business entities - in the amount of twenty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of thirty, for large business entities - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Violations provided by a part one of this Article that entailed traffic accident with infliction of a light harm to health of an injured party, damage of transport vehicles, cargo or another property, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
3. The actions specified in part two of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, - 
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for officials, small business entities - in the amount of fifty, for medium-sized business entities - in the amount of seventy, for large business entities - in the amount of one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1476. Original section/article: 630. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1477. Original section/article: 631. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with the requirements for performance of work on roads, maintenance of roads, railway crossings and other road structures
Footnote. Heading of

Section 1478. Original section/article: 631. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Failure to comply with the requirements for performance of work on roads, the maintenance of roads, railway crossings and other road structures, other requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of road traffic, shall – 
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. The action (inaction) provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for individuals in the amount of five, for officials, small business entities - in the amount of fifteen, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of twenty, for large businesses - in the amount of thirty-five monthly calculation indices.
2. The actions provided by a part one of this Article that entailed the traffic accident with infliction of a light harm to health of an injured party, damage of transport vehicles, cargo, roads, road and other structures or another property, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants, subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
3. The actions (inaction) provided for in part two of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for officials, small business entities in the amount of twenty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of twenty-five, for large businesses - in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1479. Original section/article: 631. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1480. Original section/article: 632. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on maintenance of inspection wells of underground utilities, creating a threat to road safety
1. Failure to comply with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on maintenance of inspection wells of underground utilities located on the roads, as well as failure to take measures to eliminate malfunctions of underground utilities, leading to the emergence of water, technical liquids, steam on the road surface and formation, for this reason, of destruction of the roadbed, ice, visibility restrictions and other obstacles, shall –
entail a fine on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
1-1. The actions (inactions) provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
shall entail a fine for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations in the amount of fifteen, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of thirty, for large businesses - in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of this Article, which entailed a road traffic accident causing minor harm to human health, damage to vehicles, cargo and other property, shall –
entail a fine on officials, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations in amount of fifteen, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fourty monthly calculation indices.
3. The actions (inactions) provided for in part two of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, -
entail a fine for officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations in the amount of twenty, for medium-sized businesses - in the amount of thirty-five, for large businesses - in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1481. Original section/article: 632. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1482. Original section/article: 633. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of protection and use of the right of way of automobile roads
1. Plowing land reserves, cutting, grubbing and damage of plantings, turf removal and digging of earth, storage materials and cargo, performance of topographic and other works, equipping of crossroads and entrances, building of structures, underground and above-ground structures or communications, installation of advertising and another information in a right of way of automobile roads without coordination in the established manner, as well as firing, cattle grazing, landfill and snow disposal sites, trade outside the established places within the borders of the right of way, disposal of sewage, commercial, amelioratory and discharge waters in a roadway drainage system or use of the road side ditches as irrigators, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The violations provided by a part one of this Article that entailed the traffic accidents with infliction of light bodily damage to the people, damage of transport vehicles or another property or committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction provided by a part one of this Article, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of twenty five, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of forty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1483. Original section/article: 634. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of operation and protection of automobile roads and road structures by land users
Failure to fulfill the obligations on arrangement, repair and regular clearing of pedestrian footpaths and pedestrian (crossing) overpasses, irrigation systems admitting water logging of automobile roads and bogging of the right of way being settled on the fields of land users adjoining to the right of way of automobile roads, as well as the obligations on maintenance of technical working condition and clearance of the egresses from the fields being settled on these users or approaching lines to the public automobile road, including the crossing overpasses, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in amount of ten, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1484. Original section/article: 635. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules of protection of the main pipelines
1. Violation of the rules of protection of the main pipelines –
attracts prevention on natural persons, a penalty on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of seven, on subjects of average business – at a rate of seventeen, on subjects of large business – at a rate of twenty seven monthly settlement indicators.
2. Action (inaction) provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of one, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of ten, on subjects of average business – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of thirty monthly settlement indicators.
3. Non-presentation and also untimely presentation of data on oil transportation to the authorized authority in the field of hydrocarbons, required for departmental statistical observation or administrative accounting, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsoil use, shall –
subject to fine small business entities at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of eighty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1485. Original section/article: 635. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 31. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD
OF INFORMATIZATION AND COMMUNICATION

Section 1486. Original section/article: 636. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal connection of terminal units (equipment) to the telecommunication networks
Footnote.

Section 1487. Original section/article: 636. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1488. Original section/article: 637. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of communications
1. Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of communications committed in the form of:
1) unreasonable refusal of the dominating telecom operator of signing of the contract of accession or establishment by the dominating telecom operator of obviously restrictive conditions on accession or laying of communication lines;
2) violation of the terms for connection of telecommunication networks to the public communication network provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of communications;
3) violation of the levels of connecting telecommunication networks by communications providers, including traffic transmission and procedure for settlement payments;
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
5) non-compliance with the size of tariffication units;
6) it is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); 
7) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
8) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
9) uses of a radio-frequency range at discrepancy of technical parameters of radio-electronic means to the data specified in permission to use of a radio-frequency range of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9-1) - 9-2) it is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); 
9-3) violations by telecom operators of rules of application of the certificate of safety;
9-4) violations of an order of functioning of system of the centralized management of telecommunications of the Republic of Kazakhstan of networks;
9-5) providing by telecom operator access to information forbidden by the judgment which has taken legal effect or laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9-6) substitutions of network addresses;
10) non-compliance by telecom operators, the operator of the centralized database of subscriber numbers of rules of transfer of a subscriber number in networks of cellular communication;
11) non-performance by mobile operator of an obligation for granting to the operator of the centralized database of subscriber numbers of information on subscriber numbers of cellular communication;
12) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
13) non-compliance by operators with mail of the established requirements for the organization of service of users and an order of carrying out operational day;
14) violations by operators of mail of the established requirements for an order of reception and delivery of mailings and also their registrations which have led to loss of the mailing;
15) violations by operators of mail of requirements for establishment on post networks of the technical means and oborudovaniye allowing to reveal the forbidden objects and substances in mailings;
16) a failure to provide telecom operators and owners of networks of optimization of own communication networks, including timely reaction and taking measures for the purpose of decrease in distribution of a radio signal in the territory of institutions of a penal correction system;
17) violations by telecom operators of the rules for the provision of communication services, –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, small business entities at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2. The acts provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on officials, small business entities at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
3. Violation of an obligation for collecting and storage of office information on subscribers and (or) users of communication services –
entail a fine on subjects of small entrepreneurship in amount of fifty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of one hundred, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of five hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. The action provided by a part three of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine small business entities at a rate of hundred, on subjects of average business – at a rate of two hundred, on subjects of large business – of two thousand monthly settlement indicators.
5. Non-performance by telecom operator and (or) the owner of a communication network of obligations for providing the bodies which are carrying out operational search, counterintelligence activities on communication networks, organizational and technical capabilities of holding operational search, counterprospecting actions on all communication networks and also to taking measures to prevention of disclosure of forms and methods of holding operational search, counterprospecting actions –
subject to fine small business entities – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of five hundred monthly settlement indicators.
6. Non-performance by telecom operator and (or) the owner of a communication network of obligations for providing to the bodies which are carrying out operational search, counterintelligence activities on communication networks, access to office information on subscribers and also taking measures to prevention of disclosure of forms and methods of holding operational search, counterprospecting actions –
subject to fine small business entities – at a rate of fifty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of five hundred monthly settlement indicators.
7. Failure to follow by telecom operator and (or) the owner of a communication network of an obligation for ensuring functions of the telecommunication equipment for technical holding operational search, counterprospecting actions according to requirements to networks and means of communication –
shall entail a fine in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, five hundred monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and seven hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
8. The actions provided by parts of the sixth, seventh present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty –
shall entail a fine in the amount of four hundred for small business entities, seven hundred for medium business entities and two thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities, with suspension of the licence to provide telecommunications services or suspension of telecommunications activities or certain types of telecommunications activities in the absence of licensing of such telecommunications activities.
9. Failure to follow by mobile operator of obligations for providing services for communication of the settlements and (or) territories specified in permission to use of a radio-frequency range of the Republic of Kazakhstan –subjects deprivation of permission to use of a radio-frequency range.
10. Failure to use the radio frequency spectrum within one year -
shall entail withdrawal of the authorisation to use the radio frequency spectrum.
11. Non-performance by mobile operator of an obligation for ensuring transfer of subscriber numbers in networks of cellular communication –
subject to fine small business entities – at a rate of five hundred, on subjects of average business – of one thousand, on subjects of large business – of two thousand monthly settlement indicators.
12. Violation of the rules of assignment of strips of frequencies, radio frequencies (radio-frequency channels), operation of radio-electronic means and high-frequency devices and also carrying out calculation of electromagnetic compatibility of radio-electronic means of civil appointment –
subjects prevention or a penalty on natural persons at a rate of five, on officials, individual entrepreneurs at a rate of twenty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of eighty monthly settlement indicators.
13. The actions provided by a part of the twelfth present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine to natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, individual entrepreneurs – at a rate of forty, on small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of sixty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
14. Provision of communication services to users that do not meet the quality standards, technical standards and indicators of the quality of communication services –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of ten, for small businesses – in the amount of twenty, for medium–sized businesses – in the amount of forty, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand monthly calculation indices.
15. The act provided for in part fourteen of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, –
entails a fine for individuals in the amount of twenty, for small businesses – in the amount of forty, for medium–sized businesses – in the amount of eighty, for large businesses - in the amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.
16. Failure of a telecommunications operator and (or) owner of a communications network to fulfil the obligation to ensure the safety and security, uninterrupted functioning of telecommunications equipment with the functions of technical conduct of operational and investigative, counterintelligence activities – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for small business entities, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
17. Failure of the postal operator to fulfil its obligations to support the bodies engaged in operational, investigative and counterintelligence activities on postal communications networks with organisational and technical capabilities to implement operational, investigative and counterintelligence activities on all postal communications networks, access to proprietary information on users of the postal operator's services, and to take measures to prevent the disclosure of forms and methods of operational, investigative and counterintelligence activities – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for small business entities, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and five hundred monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
18. Failure of the postal operator to install on postal networks technical means and equipment that ensure the performance of operational-search, counter-intelligence activities, collection and storage of information on personal data, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of three hundred monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, five hundred monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and seven hundred monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
19. Acts envisaged in paragraphs seventeenth and eighteenth of this article, committed repeatedly within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty, – 
shall entail a fine in the amount of four hundred monthly calculation indices for small enterprises, seven hundred monthly calculation indices for medium enterprises and two thousand monthly calculation indices for large enterprises.
20. Provision of services by a mobile network operator involving the sending of text messages to members of the public’s mobile devices containing advertisements for gambling and/or betting shall result in a fine of fifty monthly calculation indices for small business entities, one hundred for medium-sized business entities, and five hundred for large business entities.
Notes.
1. Radio-electronic devices in the present Code are understood as the technical means consisting of one or several radio-transmitting or radio-receiving devices or their combinations and the service equipment, intended for transfer and reception of radio waves. 
2. High-frequency devices in the present Code are understood as the equipment or devices intended for generation and local use of radio-frequency energy in the industrial, scientific, medical, household purposes except for application in the field of telecommunication. 
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 1489. Original section/article: 637. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 1/1/2016); from 09.04.2016 № 499-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2016 № 36-VІ (shall be enforced after two months after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1490. Original section/article: 638. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Use of the communications means subjected to the compulsory confirmation of conformance, but that did not pass it
1. Use of the technical means of communications in unified telecommunications network of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally use of radio electronic means and high frequency devices that are the sources of electromagnetic radiation, technical means of postal communications subjected to the compulsory confirmation of conformance in the field of technical regulation and that did not pass it, shall –
subject prevention or a penalty on natural persons at a rate of five, on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of sixty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of hundred twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred fifty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of three hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators, with confiscation of not certified means of communication.
Footnote.

Section 1491. Original section/article: 638. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1492. Original section/article: 639. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of requirements for maintenance of the protection of electronic information resources
1. Violation of the requirements for maintenance of the protection of electronic information resources in the form of obstructing the work of, or blocking software (software and hardware) of of State technical services, as well as obstructing the work of employees of the State technical service with informatization objects that interact with the public technical service-involves either a warning or fine of ten individuals, officials, small businesses or non-profit organizations-in the amount of twenty, to medium-sized business entities in the amount of forty, on subjects large enterprise-100 MCI.
2. Actions (inaction), referred to in paragraph 1 of this article committed repeatedly or if they result in the emergence of information security incident-involve a penalty on individuals in the amount of twenty, to officials, small businesses or non-profit organizations-in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of medium-sized businesses-at a rate of one hundred major subjects entrepreneurship-in amount of 200 monthly calculation indexes.
Footnote.

Section 1493. Original section/article: 639. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in the redaction of law № 419 of 24.11.2015-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1494. Original section/article: 640. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about the electronic document and the digital signature
1. Refusal in adoption of electronic documents in the cases provided by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to fine officials at a rate of twenty, on legal entities – at a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Failure of the certification centre to take measures required to prevent the loss, modification and forgery of the public and private keys of electronic digital signatures in storage –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
2-1. Infringement of the rules of issuance, storage, withdrawal of registration certificates and confirmation of the ownership and validity of the public key of the electronic digital signature, expressed in non-compliance by the national certification centre of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the certification centre:
1) terms and conditions of issuance of registration certificates;
2) verification of the identity and validity of the public key of an electronic digital signature - shall entail a fine of thirty monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-profit organisations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses and one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
2-2. Infringement of the rules for verifying the authenticity of an electronic digital signature, expressed in the absence of electronic digital signature authentication functionality, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-profit organisations, one hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses and one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for large businesses”;
3. A failure to provide certification center of protection of information about owners of registration certificates –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
4. Rejection by the owner of the registration certificate of measures for protection of the closed key of the digital signature belonging to him against illegal access and use and also on storage of open keys in the order established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
subject to fine a rate of fifty monthly settlement indicators.
5. Illegal transfer of the closed key of the digital signature to other persons –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of fifteen, on subjects of average business – at a rate of thirty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
6. The use of the private key of the electronic digital signature of another person -
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, one hundred monthly calculation indices for officials, small businesses or non-profit organisations, one hundred and fifty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses, and two hundred monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
Footnote.

Section 1495. Original section/article: 640. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1496. Original section/article: 641. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about informatization
1. The violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about informatization made in a look: 
1) failure or inadequate implementation by the proprietor or owner of the information systems containing personal data, proprietor and (or) operator of the base, containing personal data, as well as by the third party of measures for their protection;
2) violations of uniform requirements in the field of information and communication technologies and ensuring information security;
3) № 237-VI is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.12.2023 № 44-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
5) losses of originals of technical documentation on papers;
6) industrial operation of "electronic government" informatization object without an act of positive test result for compliance with information security requirements –
shall entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for individuals, seventy-five monthly calculation indices for officials, small business entities or non-profit organisations, three hundred monthly calculation indices for medium-sized business entities and one thousand monthly calculation indices for large business entities.
2. Not production of a backup copy of the state electronic information resources –
subject to fine officials at a rate of thirty, on legal entities – at a rate of eighty monthly settlement indicators. 
3. The actions (inaction) provided by parts of the first and second present article, made repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of twenty, on officials – at a rate of fifty, on legal entities – at a rate of hundred fifty monthly settlement indicators.
4. Use of the electronic information resources containing personal data about natural persons for causing property and (or) moral harm by it, restrictions of realization of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
attracts prevention or a penalty on natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials, small business entities or non-profit organizations – at a rate of twenty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of forty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
5. Not notification the owner or the owner of crucial objects of information and communication infrastructure of the National coordination center of information security about incidents of information security and about results of response to them as it should be and terms which are determined by rules of carrying out monitoring of ensuring information security of objects of informatization of "the electronic government" and crucial objects of information and communication infrastructure if other isn't established by acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
subject to fine physical and officials at a rate of twenty, on small business entities – at a rate of forty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of sixty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators. 
6. The act provided by a part of the fifth present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
subject to fine physical and officials at a rate of forty, on small business entities – at a rate of eighty, on subjects of average business – at a rate of hundred twenty, on subjects of large business – at a rate of two hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Note. For the purposes of part one of this article, officials shall be understood to mean the first heads, deputy heads, chiefs of staff or persons acting in their stead, who are entrusted by appropriate orders with the performance of duties.
Footnote.

Section 1497. Original section/article: 641. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.12.2023 № 44-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall apply upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1498. Original section/article: 641-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of artificial intelligence 
1. A violation of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of artificial intelligence, committed in the form of:
1) failure by the owners or operators of artificial intelligence systems to inform users that the results generated by the artificial intelligence system are synthetic, which may mislead them;
2) the failure of the owners or operators of artificial intelligence systems to manage the risks associated with high-risk artificial intelligence systems, resulting in adverse effects on human health or well-being, the creation or dissemination of prohibited or false information, discrimination or human rights violations, and the causing of other harm, if such an action (or inaction) does not constitute a criminal offence, – shall result in a fine of fifteen monthly calculation indices for natural persons, twenty for small business entities or non-profit organisations, thirty for medium-sized business entities, and one hundred for large business entities.
2. Any actions (or inaction) specified in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within one year of an administrative penalty being imposed, shall result in a fine of thirty for natural persons, fifty monthly calculation indices for small business entities or non-profit organisations, seventy for medium-sized business entities, and two hundred for large business entities, with the suspension or prohibition of the artificial intelligence system’s operations.
Footnote. Chapter 31 has been supplemented with

Section 1499. Original section/article: 641-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
under the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 32. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS IN THE FIELD OF
MILITARY OBLIGATIONS, MILITARY SERVICE AND DEFENCE

Section 1500. Original section/article: 642. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-representation or untimely representation of the lists of citizens to the local body of military administration subjected to primal military registration or assignment to the draft offices
Non-representation or untimely representation of the lists of citizens to the local body of military administration subjected to primal military registration or assignment to the draft offices within established term, shall –
entail a fine on civil servants of organizations, educational organizations, as well as civil servants of the organizations carrying out operation of residential houses, and house owners – in amount of ten, on chief executive officers of organizations, educational organizations – in amount of fifteen, on subjects of small entrepreneurship – in amount of twenty, on subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in amount of thirty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – in amount of forty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1501. Original section/article: 643. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Unlawful actions (omission) that entailed non-fulfillment of the measures of civil defence
Unlawful actions (omission) that entailed non-fulfillment of the measures of civil defence, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1502. Original section/article: 643-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of mobilization training
1. Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of mobilization training, committed in kind of:
1) lack of mobilization plans in state bodies, akimats of the region, the city of republican significance, the capital, district (city of regional significance) and organizations that have mobilization tasks or mobilization orders;
2) non-fulfillment of measures to create and maintain an insurance fund of technical documentation for weapons and military equipment, the most important civilian products, as well as design documentation for high-risk facilities, life support systems for the population and objects that are national treasures;
3) failure to take measures to prepare special formations and equipment intended for delivery to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations, special state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as to organizations fulfilling mobilization orders when mobilization is announced;
4) failure to take measures to create, accumulate, preserve and update stocks of material assets of the mobilization reserve;
5) non-performance of armor protection of persons liable for military duty, shall –
entail a warning or a fine on officials in the amount of thirty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of forty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of eighty monthly calculation indices.
2. The action provided for by part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative sanction, –
entail a fine on officials in the amount of fifty, on the subjects of small entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – in the amount of sixty, on the subjects of medium entrepreneurship – in the amount of seventy, on the subjects of large entrepreneurship – in the amount of one hundred двадцати monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 32 was supplemented with

Section 1503. Original section/article: 643-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 332-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1504. Original section/article: 644. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-notification of citizens on calling local body of military administration
Non-notification of citizens on calling local body of military administration by a head or other responsible person of the organization liable for military registration work, and equally non-ensuring the possibility of the well-timed appearance for citizens on calling of the local body of military administration, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1505. Original section/article: 645. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Untimely representation of the details on changing the composition of resident citizens being liable or obliged to be liable for military duty
Untimely representation of the details on changing the composition of permanently residing citizens being liable or obliged to be liable for military duty to the bodies imposed by maintenance of the military registration, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1506. Original section/article: 646. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-notification of the details on the persons liable for military service, draftees and citizens
1. Failure by an official of the population social protection body, within the prescribed period, to recognize citizens who are or are obliged to be on military registration as persons with disabilities, as well as by an official of health organizations, to provide information about persons subject to military service and conscripts who are on inpatient treatment and dispensary registration, to the local military administration body -
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-notification on amending the registers for acts of civil status of the citizens liable or obliged to be liable for military duty within established term by the civil servant of the civil registry office to the local body of military administration, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
3. Failure by the head or other official of the organisation to report to the relevant local military authorities on the employment (study) of citizens who are obliged to be registered but are not on the military register at their place of residence, –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
4. Non-notification on the persons liable for military service and draftees in respect of whom the inquest or preliminary investigation is carried out, to the local body of military administration by the civil servants of the bodies of inquiry and preliminary investigation being liable for notifying within the term established by the legislation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
5. Non-notification on the persons liable for military service and draftees in respect of whom the court considers criminal cases, as well as on the verdicts entered into legal force in respect of them by the civil servants of courts being liable for notifying the local body of military administration within the term established by the legislation, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1507. Original section/article: 646. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1508. Original section/article: 647. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution by citizens of obligations for military account
Failure of a citizen, who is or is obliged to be on the military register, to appear at the summons of the local body of military administration within the specified period without a valid reason or arrival in a settlement (administrative district) to the place of temporary stay (for a period exceeding three months), as well as on business trips, for study, leave or medical treatment (for a period exceeding three months), obliged within seven working days to apply to the Government for Citizens State Corporation at the place of arrival with an application for registration on the military register, –
subject to fine a rate of five monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1509. Original section/article: 647. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1510. Original section/article: 648. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance from medical examination or trainings
1. Evasion from undergoing the health examination or examination on the instructions of the enrolment commission for the registration of citizens for military service or the draft board –
entail a fine on persons liable for military service in amount of five monthly calculation indices, and on draftees – a notification or fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices.
2. Avoidance of the persons liable for military service from military trainings, shall –
entail a fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1511. Original section/article: 648. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1512. Original section/article: 649. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Malicious damage or loss of military registration documents
Malicious damage or destruction of the military card or other accounting military documents of a citizen subjected to call to military service, and equally loss of the military card or other accounting military documents of the citizen subjected to call to military service due to the fault of the owner, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of five monthly calculation indices.

Section 1513. Original section/article: 650. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Avoidance from training for military service
Avoidance from training for military service of the draftees on the military technical specialties according to referral of the bodies of military administration or non-attendance of studies of educational organizations without reasonable excuses, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of one monthly calculation index.

Section 1514. Original section/article: 651. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal calling of citizens to compulsory military service and military service under the contract, representation of illegal deferrals
Illegal calling of citizens to compulsory military service and military service under the contract or representation of illegal deferrals, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seventeen monthly calculation indices.

Section 1515. Original section/article: 652. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of military service
Footnote. The title of

Section 1516. Original section/article: 652. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
1. Insult of one military servant by another during fulfillment or due to fulfillment of the obligations of the military service, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest fir the term up to ten days.
2. The action provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
3. Willful leaving the military unit or duty areas, and equally non-appearance at service in due time without the reasonable excuses upon dismissal from the unit, appointment, transfer, from detached service, vacation or medical institution lasting more than two days, but no more than ten days committed by the military servant doing military service on call or under contract, in time of peace, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to ten days.
4. The actions provided by a part three of this Article lasting more than ten days, but no more than one month, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
5. Violation of the rules for service by the person that is the part of the military detail on protection of public order and ensuring the public security, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to five days.
6. Insubordination, i.e. open refusal from execution of the order of the head, and equally intentional non-execution of the order of the head delivered in established manner by a subordinate that did not inflict essential damage to service interests shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to fifteen days.
Footnote.

Section 1517. Original section/article: 652. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1518. Original section/article: 652-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Insubordination or another non-execution of the order
Footnote.

Section 1519. Original section/article: 652-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1520. Original section/article: 652-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Willful leaving the unit or duty area
Footnote.

Section 1521. Original section/article: 652-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1522. Original section/article: 652-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the rules for service on protection of public order and ensuring the public security
Footnote.

Section 1523. Original section/article: 652-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
Chapter 33. ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS ENCROACHING ON
THE INSTITUTE OF THE STATE POWER

Section 1524. Original section/article: 653. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Contempt of court
1. Contempt of court being expressed in the absence from court without the reasonable excuses of participants of the proceeding and other persons by summons, notice, notification or calling in cases when the further consideration of the case in their absence is impossible, insubordination of the regulations of the chairman in a court sitting, violation of the rules established in court, as well as the other actions (omission) obviously indicating contempt of court and (or) judge, shall –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or community service for up to twenty hours or administrative detention for up to five days.
2. The action (omission) provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
shall entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or community service for up to forty hours or administrative detention for up to ten days.
Note. Requirements of this Article shall not apply to actions (inaction), in respect of which measures of procedural coercion can be applied in accordance with the Administrative Procedural and Process-Related Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1525. Original section/article: 653. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be in force since 01.09.2025).

Section 1526. Original section/article: 653-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Showing disrespect to the Constitutional Court 
1. Disrespect for the Constitutional Court, expressed in the failure to appear in the Constitutional Court without valid reasons of participants in the constitutional proceedings, other persons and bodies involved in the consideration of the appeal, their representatives on notification or summons in cases where further consideration of the appeal in their absence seems impossible, disobeying the orders of the presiding judge, violation of the rules established in the Constitutional Court, as well as other actions (inaction) that clearly indicate disrespect for the Constitutional Court and (or) the judge of the Constitutional Court, –
entail a warning or a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to five days.
2. The actions (inaction) provided for in part one of this Article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to ten days.
Footnote. Chapter 33 is supplemented by

Section 1527. Original section/article: 653-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 1528. Original section/article: 654. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Responsibility of participants of the administrative infraction proceeding
Refusal or non-appearance of a participant of a proceeding in the body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction without the reasonable excuse that conditioned postponement of the proceeding on the case, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1529. Original section/article: 655. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Absence from court for fulfillment of the obligations of a jury
Absence of a citizen from court on calling without the reasonable excuse for fulfillment of the obligations of a jury, shall –
entail a notification or fine on individuals in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1530. Original section/article: 656. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-presentation of information for making the lists of candidates for jurors
Non-presentation of information required to the local executive bodies for making the lists of candidates for jurors, and equally representation of inaccurate information, shall –
entail a notification or fine in amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.

Section 1531. Original section/article: 657. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-fulfillment of the obligations by a jury, as well as non-compliance with the restrictions linked with consideration of a case in judicial proceeding
1. Non-fulfillment of the obligations by a jury, as well as non-compliance with the restrictions linked with consideration of a case in judicial proceeding established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten monthly settlement indicators.
2. The same actions that entailed removal of a jury from the further participation in consideration of the case, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1532. Original section/article: 657. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1533. Original section/article: 658. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal or avoidance of a witness from testimony
Refusal or non-appearance of the person subjected to inquiry by the body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infraction without reasonable excuses as a witness from testimony, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two monthly calculation indices.

Section 1534. Original section/article: 659. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Knowingly false testimony of a witness, injured party, expert conclusion or incorrect translation
1. Knowingly false testimony of a witness, a victim, an expert's opinion when hearing a case on an administrative offence and in the course of expert examination of medical activity, as well as knowingly incorrect translation made by a translator in the same cases, –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions committed by the experts upon conducting examination of medical activity repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Note. A witness, victim, expert or translator shall be released from administrative responsibility, if they voluntarily in the course of consideration of a case on an administrative offence before a decision on the case has been rendered have declared the falsity of their testimony, opinion or incorrect translation.
Footnote.

Section 1535. Original section/article: 659. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1536. Original section/article: 660. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Concealment of administrative infraction and falsification of evidences on the cases on administrative infractions
1. Intentional failure to take measures on initiation of the administrative infraction proceeding in existence of the components of the infraction within the term of limitation committed by a civil servant being authorized to draw up a protocol on the administrative infraction, if this action does not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. Falsification of evidences on the cases on administrative infractions, if this action did not entail infliction of a harm to human health or essential damage, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1537. Original section/article: 660. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1538. Original section/article: 661. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal or avoidance of a civil servant from performance of the regulation or instruction on conducting the examination or requirement on calling a specialist
Refusal or non-appearance of the civil servant to whom the regulation or instruction of the body of state supervision and control is directed, from conducting the examination or from requirement on calling a specialist for participation in exercising control, performance of drawing up the documents, the administrative infraction proceeding or its consideration, from their performance without reasonable excuses, shall –
entail a fine in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.

Section 1539. Original section/article: 662. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of a personal surety on appearance of an accused (suspected) person
Violation or non-exercise of the written guarantee by the persons that gave it, on appearance of an accused (suspected) person to the person carrying out an inquest, investigator or to the court that entailed avoidance of the accused (suspected) person from investigation or court, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices.

Section 1540. Original section/article: 663. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Violation of the obligation on ensuring the appearance of a minor accused (suspected) person
Violation of the written obligation by parents, guardian, trustee or representative of the administration of a special closed child welfare institution that gave it, on ensuring the appearance of the minor accused (suspected) person placed under their care to the investigator, inquirer or to the court that entailed his (her) avoidance from investigation and court, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one monthly calculation index.

Section 1541. Original section/article: 664. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to take measures on special ruling, decree of court, recommendation of a procurator, investigator or inquirer
Failure by an official or a private bailiff to examine a private ruling, a court order, or a submission from a prosecutor, investigator or inquiry officer, or failure to take measures to remedy the breaches of the law specified therein, as well as failure to respond in a timely manner to a private ruling, order or submission –
shall be subject to a fine of eight times the monthly calculation index.
Footnote.

Section 1542. Original section/article: 664. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1543. Original section/article: 664-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to comply with the prosecutor's decision 
1. Failure to comply with the prosecutor's decision, if this is an action (inaction) does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
entails a fine in the amount of fifteen monthly calculation indices.
2. The action (inaction) provided for in part one of this article, committed repeatedly within a year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
entails a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 33 is supplemented by

Section 1544. Original section/article: 664-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1545. Original section/article: 665. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-appearance to a prosecutor, investigator and to the body of inquiry, officer of justice, bailiff
1. Non-appearance on calling of a prosecutor, investigator, body of inquiry for testimony to the officer of justice, bailiff on the issues of execution proceeding, and equally refusal or knowingly false testimony, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of three, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.
2. Non-performance of the requirements of a prosecutor, investigator, inquirer submitted on the basis and in the manner established by the Law, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on civil servants – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to five days.

Section 1546. Original section/article: 666. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-notification or untimely notification of a prosecutor
Non-notification or untimely notification of a prosecutor on production of the actions by the state body requiring such notification in accordance with the legislative acts, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1547. Original section/article: 667. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Disobedience to a lawful order or request of an employee (serviceman) of a law enforcement or special state body, a military police body, a state courier service, an officer of the court, a bailiff 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1548. Original section/article: 667. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Disobedience to a lawful order or request of an employee (serviceman) of a law enforcement or special public authority, military police authority, state courier service, court bailiff, judicial executor due to the performance of their official duties, impeding their lawful activities, as well as interference expressed in foul language, disrespect, indecent behaviour, provocation, insulting solicitation, demonstration of indecent gestures (signs), objects, including with the use of mass media or telecommunication networks, –
entail a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for up to fifteen days.
2. The actions provided by part one of the present article perfect repeatedly within a year after imposing of an administrative penalty, –
attract administrative detention for a period of ten days.
3. The actions provided by a part of the second present article, made by persons to whom administrative detention according to a part of the second

Section 1549. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code isn't applied –
entail a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1550. Original section/article: 667. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1551. Original section/article: 668. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding the lawful activity of an advocate, legal adviser
Footnote. Title of

Section 1552. Original section/article: 668. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with amendments introduced by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Impeding the lawful activities of an advocate or the collegium of advocates, legal consultancy office, advocates' office, legal advisers, expressed in the failure or refusal to provide, within the time limits established by law, upon written request, the documents, materials or information required for the performance of their professional duties, if these actions do not have signs of a criminal offence, –
shall entail a fine on officials in amount of fifteen, on legal entities – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1553. Original section/article: 668. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2018 № 177-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1554. Original section/article: 668-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Interference or obstruction of the legitimate activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, obstruction of the legitimate activities of his representative in the region, city of republican significance, the capital 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1555. Original section/article: 668-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Interference or obstruction of the legitimate activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the performance of his official duties, obstruction of the legitimate activities of his representative in the region, city of republican significance, the capital, expressed in the failure to provide unhindered visits and communication with persons located in organizations and institutions specified in the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
entails a fine on officials in the amount of fifteen, on legal entities - in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote. Chapter 33 is supplemented by

Section 1556. Original section/article: 668-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1557. Original section/article: 668-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Impeding the lawful activities of the regional competent authority for the protection of children’s rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Obstructing the lawful activities of the regional competent authority for the protection of children’s rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, by failing to ensure unimpeded access to public authorities and organisations within the education, healthcare, social protection, culture and sport sectors where minors are held, –
shall be punishable by a fine of fifteen times the monthly calculation index
Footnote. Chapter 33 has been supplemented with

Section 1558. Original section/article: 668-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
under Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1559. Original section/article: 669. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to execute a court judgment, court decision or other judicial act and implementation document
1. Failure to execute a court judgement, court decision or other judicial act and enforcement document, if this action does not contain signs of a criminally punishable act, –
shall entail a fine in the amount of five monthly calculation indices or community service for up to twenty hours or administrative detention for up to five days for individuals; a fine in the amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative detention for up to five days for officials, private notaries, private bailiffs, lawyers; a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculation indices for small businesses or non-profit organisations; a fine in the amount of forty monthly calculation indices for medium-sized businesses; a fine in the amount of fifty monthly calculation indices for large businesses.
2. Violation of the special requirements established by the court for behavior of the offender, shall -
entails administrative arrest for ten days.
3. Actions provided by part two of this Article, committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of an administrative sanction, shall -
entails administrative arrest for twenty days.
4. The actions provided for in parts two and three of this Article, committed by persons to whom administrative arrest in accordance with part two of

Section 1560. Original section/article: 50. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code does not apply, –
entail a fine in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices.
Note. A person who has not executed a court decision on administrative expulsion and has not left the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the period specified in the decision shall not be subject to administrative liability under this article, if he is found at checkpoints across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan within thirty days from the date of expiration of the period specified in the court decision for the controlled independent departure of the person being expelled from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The requirements of this Article shall not apply to actions (inaction), in respect of which measures of procedural coercion can be applied in accordance with the Administrative Procedural and Process-Related Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1561. Original section/article: 669. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1562. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.05.2020 № 327-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see

Section 1563. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
for the enactment procedure).

Section 1564. Original section/article: 670. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-execution of the decree and other legal requirement of an officer of justice bailiff
1. Non-execution of the resolutions and legal requirements of the bailiff connected with execution of the executive document, including on representation in the time of data on the place of work of the debtor appointed by him and his income, production of deduction according to the executive document and transfer of the collected sum to the execution creditor according to the address of collecting on the sums of money and property of the debtor which are at other natural and legal entities –
subject to fine natural persons at a rate of ten, on officials – at a rate of fifteen, on legal entities – at a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
2. Representation of knowingly inaccurate details to an officer of justice, as well as on incomes and property status of a debtor, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of twenty, on legal entities – in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
3. Non-performance of legal requirements of a bailiff, shall –
entail a fine in amount of fifty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1565. Original section/article: 670. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1566. Original section/article: 671. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Failure to report on change of the place of work and residence of the person being a debtor on execution proceeding to an officer of justice
Failure to report on dismissal from work of the person paying payments, as well as on his (her) new place of work and residence within the term of one month by the person carrying out deduction according to the enforcement document if it is known by him (her) to an officer of justice and the person receiving alimonies without valid excuse, shall –
entail a fine in amount of ten monthly calculation indices.

Section 1567. Original section/article: 672. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Loss of the executive document
Loss by the person to whom the executive document is transferred to execution, –
subject to fine a rate of twenty monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1568. Original section/article: 672. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1569. Original section/article: 673. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Obstruction of the execution of enforcement documents to an officer of justice
Obstruction of committing the actions of an officer of justice, bailiff by individuals and legal entities on levy of execution on the property (inventory, assessment, arrest, bidding) or refusal from performance of his (her) requirements due to this, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of ten, on civil servants – in amount of twenty monthly calculation indices or administrative arrest for the term up to five days.

Section 1570. Original section/article: 674. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal wearing the state awards
1. Wearing orders, medals, lapel badges to honorary title, badges of merit of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakh SSR, USSR or ribbons of order, ribbons of medals on the bars by the person that does not have the right, shall –
entail a fine in amount of three monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of the order, medal, lapel badge to honorary title, badge of merit of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakh SSR, USSR or ribbons of order, ribbons of medals on the bars.
2. Establishment or production of the badges having similar name or similarity of appearance with the state awards, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on civil servants – in amount of ten monthly calculation indices with the confiscation of the badges.

Section 1571. Original section/article: 675. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Illegal wearing (use) of clothes with the rank badges and (or) symbolics of military uniform, as well as official uniform and special outfit
1. Illegal wearing (use) of clothes with the rank badges and (or) symbolics of military uniform, as well as official uniform and special outfit, shall –
entail a fine on individuals in amount of five, on legal entities in amount of twenty five monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the clothes with the rank badges and (or) symbolics of military uniform, as well as official uniform and special outfit.
2. The same action committed by a legal entity having a license for carrying out the protection activity, due to carrying out of this activity, shall –
entail a fine on legal entities in amount of thirty monthly calculation indices, with the confiscation of the clothes with the rank badges and (or) symbolics of military uniform, as well as official uniform and special outfit.
3. Illegal wearing (use) of the uniform of an employee of a private security organisation holding the position of a security guard -
shall entail a fine on individuals in the amount of five monthly calculation indices with confiscation of uniforms.
Footnote.

Section 1572. Original section/article: 675. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 34. ADMINISTRATIVE CORRUPTION INFRACTIONS

Section 1573. Original section/article: 676. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Provision of illegal material remuneration to individuals
Provision of illegal material remuneration, gifts, benefits or services by individuals to the persons authorized to perform the state functions, or to the persons equated to them, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1574. Original section/article: 677. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Receipt of illegal material remuneration by the person authorized to perform the state functions, or by the person equated to him (her)
Receipt of illegal material remuneration, gifts, benefits or services by the person authorized to perform the state functions, or by the person equated to him (her) personally or through intermediary for the actions (omission) in favour of the persons that provided them, if such actions (omission) are included into official powers of the person authorized to perform the state functions, or the person equated to him (her), if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1575. Original section/article: 678. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Provision of illegal material remuneration by legal entities
1. Provision of illegal material remuneration, gifts, benefits or services by legal entities to the persons authorized to perform the state functions, or to the persons equated to them, if these actions do not contain the signs of a criminally punishable act, shall –
entail a fine in amount of seven hundred fifty monthly calculation indices.
2. The same actions provided by a part one of this Article committed repeatedly second time within a year after imposition of the administrative sanction, shall –
entail a fine in amount of one thousand five hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1576. Original section/article: 679. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying out of illegal entrepreneurial activity and receipt of illegal incomes by the state bodies and bodies of local self-government
Engagement in entrepreneurial activity by the state bodies, bodies of local self-government outside the functions imposed on them by the legislation or receipt of the material goods and advantages, besides the established sources of financing, shall –
entail a fine on heads of these organizations in amount of six hundred monthly calculation indices.

Section 1577. Original section/article: 680. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Rejection by heads of public authorities of measures for anti-corruption
Rejection by the heads or responsible secretaries or other officials determined by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, public authorities, Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the powers of measures for elimination of violations of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about anti-corruption or concerning the persons guilty of commission of corruption offenses subordinated to them or acceptance of the specified measures with violation of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about anti-corruption, or failure to provide the relevant information in bodies of state revenues at the place of residence of perpetrators –
subject to fine a rate of hundred monthly settlement indicators.
Footnote.

Section 1578. Original section/article: 680. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 11/18/2015 № 411-V (shall be enforced from 1/1/2016); with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1579. Original section/article: 681. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Employment of the persons that previously committed a corruption crime
Employment of persons who have previously committed a corruption offence in contravention of the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the heads of public authorities and organisations or quasi-state sector entities, as well as their further employment,
shall entail a fine in the amount of one hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1580. Original section/article: 681. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1581. Original section/article: 3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
THE BODIES AUTHORIZED TO CONSIDER THE CASES ON
ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS
Chapter 35. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1582. Original section/article: 682. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies (officials), authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions
Cases on administrative infractions shall be considered by:
1) judges of specialized district and equivalent courts for administrative infractions;
2) judges of specialized inter-district juvenile courts;
3) officials of state bodies, authorized by this Code.
Note. If on the territory of the corresponding administrative-territorial unit a specialized district court and a court equivalent to it for administrative infractions and a specialized inter-district court for juvenile affairs are not formed, the cases referred to their jurisdiction shall be eligible to be considered by district (city) courts.
Footnote.

Section 1583. Original section/article: 682. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1584. Original section/article: 683. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Differentiation of the competence of the bodies (civil servants) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions
1. The judges shall consider the cases on administrative infractions related to their jurisdiction by this Code.
2. The civil servants of the state bodies, authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall consider the cases and impose the administrative sanctions for administrative infractions, with the exception of the cases mentioned in

Section 1585. Original section/article: 684. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3. The cases on administrative infractions, the one of the types of administrative sanction for which provides administrative arrest, administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons beyond the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan, confiscation of the subjects that are the tool or subject for commission of administrative infraction, and equally confiscation of incomes (dividends), money and securities received due to commission of the administrative infraction, deprivation of the special right afforded to a particular person (including the right of operating vehicle), compulsory demolition of illegally building or built structure shall be considered by a judge.
4. In accordance with

Section 1586. Original section/article: 24. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, upon written application of the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the case on any infraction provided by the Special part of

Section 1587. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall be considered by a judge, if it is filed before consideration of the case on administrative infraction.
5. According to the written statement or according to the statement in electronic form, certified by the digital signature of a lawful representative of the person concerning whom proceeding of administrative infraction is conducted, or the victim who is a minor or on the physical or mental state deprived of an opportunity independently to carry out the rights, case can be considered in the specialized district and equated to them courts for administrative infractions, and in the absence of those – in general courts.
Footnote.

Section 1588. Original section/article: 683. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 31.1o2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021). 
Chapter 36. JURISDICTION OF THE CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE
INFRACTIONS, COMPETENCE OF CIVIL SERVANTS ON CONSIDERING
THE CASES AND IMPOSITION OF ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS

Section 1589. Original section/article: 684. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Courts 
1. Judges of specialised district courts and courts of equivalent status dealing with administrative offences shall hear cases involving administrative offences covered by Articles 73, 73-3, 74, 76, 77, 78, 80 (part 2-2), 80-1 (parts two, four and five), 81 (part two), 82 (part two), 82-1, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127-2, 139 (part two), 145, 147-1, 149, 150, 151 (part two), 154, 158, 159 (parts one, two, three, 3-1 and four), 160 (part two), 169 (parts two, seven, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen and fourteen), 170 (parts ten and twelve), 171, 173, 174 (part two), 175, 176-1, 190 (parts two, three and four), 193 (parts two and three), 200, 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen (excluding cases where such breaches are committed by legal advisers, independent legal experts, sole traders and legal entities, engaging in leasing activities as a lessor without a licence, or providing intermediary services for the sale and purchase of immovable property, entities dealing in precious metals and gemstones, and jewellery made from them, as well as accounting firms and professional accountants, engaged in entrepreneurial activities in the field of accounting, the Government for Citizens State Corporation and mobile network operators) and nineteen), 234-1, 245, 246, 247 (part eleven), 251, 281 ((parts four, five and six), 282 (parts three, four, six, seven, eleven and thirteen), 283, 283-1 (parts five and six), 294 (parts one and two), 319, 327-2 (part two), 328 (parts three and four), 331 (part four), 344 (parts one and 4-1), 356 (part fourteen), 357, 360 (part one), 381-1, 382 (parts two and three), 383 (parts three and four), 385 (part two), 389, 392 (part three), 395 (part two), 396 (part two), 398, 400 (part two), 407 (parts two and three), 409 (parts 7–8), 415 (part two), 416, 423, 423-1, 424 (parts three and five), 424-1, 425 (part two), 426 (parts two, three and four), 427, 433 (part two), 434, 434-2, 436, 438 (part two), 439, 440 (part three), 440-1, 443 (part two), 443-1 (part two), 444 (part one), 446, 449 (parts two and three), 450 (part two), 451 (parts one, two, three, eight, nine and seventeen), 453, 456-1, 456-2, 456-3 (part two), 461, 462, 463, 465, 476, 477, 478, 479, 480 (part two), 481, 482, 483, 485 (part two), 488, 489 (parts two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight), 489-1, 490, 495 (part two), 496 (parts two and three), 498, 506, 507, 508, 510 (part four), 512 (part two), 513 (part two), 514 (part two), 516, 517 (parts two, four, five, six and seven), 528 (part 1-1), 532 (part two), 543 (parts three and four), 544, 545, 548 (part two), 549, 550, 551 (part three), 552 (part two), 563 (part two), 564 (part five), 569 (parts one, two and four), 590 (parts 2-1, four and 4-1), 596 (parts three, 3-1 and 4-1), 598 (part two), 603 (parts one and two), 606 (part two), 607 (parts two and three), 608, 610, 611 (parts two and three), 612 (parts three and 4-1), 613 (parts one, three, 3-1, four, five, nine, ten and eleven), 615 (part four), 621 (part three), 638 (part two), 652, 653, 653-1, 654, 655, 656, 657, 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 664, 664-1, 665, 666, 667, 668, 668-1, 669, 673, 674, 675, 676, 677, 678, 679, 680, 681 of this Code, unless otherwise specified in part three of this article.
2. Judges of specialized interdistrict juvenile courts shall consider cases:
1) on administrative infractions committed by minors provided by Articles 435, 436 (part three), 438 (part three), 440 (part three), 442 (part three), 448 of this Code;
2) on administrative offences under Articles 127, 127-1, 128, 130, 131, 131, 133, 134, 156-1 and 663 hereof.
3. Judges of the Supreme Court, cassation court, regional courts and courts equal to them, district courts and courts equal to them shall hear cases under

Section 1590. Original section/article: 653. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof on the facts of contempt of court on the part of a person present in the proceedings, established in the course of the court proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 1591. Original section/article: 684. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2016 № 41-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 132-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (see

Section 1592. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
for the procedure for entry into force); dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (for the procedure for entry into force, see

Section 1593. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see Art. 2 for the enactment procedure); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1594. Original section/article: 685. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Internal Affairs Authorities (Police)
1. Bodies of internal affairs shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 132, 146, 147, 190 (part one), 192, 196, 197, 198, 204, 204-1, 230 (part two) (with regard to offences committed by owners of vehicles and transporters on road transport and urban rail transport), 334, 359, 364, 382 (part one), 383 (parts one and two), 386, 395 (part one), 396 (part one), 407-1, 407-2, 408, 420, 421, 422, 432, 433 (part one), 434-1, 434-3, 437, 438 (part one), 440 (parts one and two), 441, 441-1, 442 (parts one and two), 443 (part one), 443-1 (part three), 444 (part two), 447, 449 (part one), 450 (part one), 458, 464, 469, 470, 480 (part one), 484, 485 (part one), 485-1, 486, 487, 489 (parts one, nine, ten and eleven), 492, 493, 494, 495 (part one), 496 (part one), 505, 510 (parts one, two, three and five), 512 (part one), 513 (part one), 514 (part one), 515, 517 (part three), 518, 519 (parts one, three, five and six), 559 ( parts one, 1-1, two, four, five and 5-1), 560, 562, 564 (part four), 566, 571 (parts two and three), 572 (part two), 573, 590 (parts one, two, three, five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten), 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596 (parts one, two, four and five), 597, 598 (part one), 599, 600, 601, 602, 603 (part three), 606 (part one), 607 (part one), 611 (part one), 612 (parts one, two, four, five and six), 613 (parts twelve and thirteen), 614, 615 (parts one, two, three and five), 617, 619, 619-1, 619-2, 620, 621 (parts one, two and four), 622, 625 ( excluding road transport offences), 626, 630, 631, 632, 635 (parts one and two) of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions on behalf of the Internal Affairs Authorities shall have the right:
1) in respect of all provisions of this Code falling within the jurisdiction of the internal affairs authorities – the chairpersons of committees and heads of departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, heads of territorial internal affairs authorities, and heads of administrative, migration and public security units in regions, cities of national importance and the capital, as well as their deputies;
2) for administrative offences under Articles 132, 147, 190 (part one), 192, 196, 197, 198, 204-1, 359, 395 (part one), 396 (part one), 420, 421, 432, 433 (part one), 434-1, 437, 438 (part one), 441-1, 444 (part two), 458, 464, 469, 470, 480 (part one), 484, 485 (part one), 486, 487, 489 (parts one, nine, ten and eleven), 492, 493, 494, 495 (part one), 496 (part one), 505 (part two), 510 (parts one, two, three and five), 512 (part one), 513 (part one), 514 (part one), 515, 517 (part three), 518, 519 (parts one, three, five and six), 562, 571 (part three), 590 (parts three, eight and ten), 591 (part two), 592 (parts three, 3-1, four and five), 593, 594 (part four), 595 (part four), 596 (parts four and five), 597 (parts five and six), 599 (part two), 600 (part two), 601 (part two), 602 (part two), 603 (part three), 612 (parts four, five and six), 613 (part thirteen), 614, 615 (part three), 617, 619, 619-1, 619-2, 621 (part two), 630, 631, 632, 635 (parts one and two) of this Code, – heads of departments, police stations, and units of the administrative police, immigration police and public security services in the district (city, or urban district), and their deputies;
3) for administrative offences under Articles 196, 197, 407-1, 407-2,420, 444 (part two), 458, 484, 485 (part one), 492, 496 (part one), 510 (parts one, two, three and five), 513 (part one), 514 (part one), 515, 517 (part three), 518, 519 (parts one, three, five and six), 559 (parts one, 1-1, two, four, five and 5-1), 560, 562, 564 ((part four), 566, 625 (for offences committed on railway transport), 630 (part one) hereof - the heads of police units on transport, departments, police stations of internal affairs bodies and their deputies;
3-1) for administrative offences under

Section 1595. Original section/article: 440. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one and two) hereof (in respect of convicted persons registered with the probation service) - by probation officers;
4) for administrative offences under Articles 146, 204, 230 (part two) ( in respect of offences committed by owners of vehicles and transporters on road transport and urban rail transport), 334, 364, 382 (part one), 383 (parts one and two), 386, 407-1, 407-2, 408, 434-3, 437 (part one), 440 (parts one and two), 441, 442 (parts one and two), 443 (part one), 447, 449 (part one), 492, 493, 494, 505 (part one), 571 (part two), 572 (part two), 573 (part four), 590 (parts one, two, five, six, seven and nine), 591 (part one), 592 (parts one and two), 593, 594 (parts one and two), 595 (parts one, two and three), 596 (parts one and two), 597 (parts one, two, three, four, 4-1 and 4-2), 598 (part one), 599 (part one), 600 (part one), 601 ((part one), 602 (part one), 606 (part one), 607 (part one), 611 (part one), 612 (parts one and two), 613 (part twelve), 615 (parts one, two and five), 619-2, 620, 621 (parts one and four), 622, 630 (part one) (in respect of natural persons) hereof, - employees of internal affairs bodies (police) who have special ranks;
4-1) for administrative offenses provided for in Articles 132 (part one), 441-1, 480 (part one), 614 of this Code – precinct police inspectors;
5) for administrative infractions provided by Articles 395 (part one), 396 (part one) of this Code - the heads of specialized police units of the Internal Affairs Authorities for combating criminal encroachments on fish stocks and their deputies. 
Footnote.

Section 1596. Original section/article: 685. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2016 № 41-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2021 № 99-VII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 23.12.2023 № 50-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 ( see Art. 2 for the enactment procedure); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (see

Section 1597. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
for the procedure for bringing it into force).

Section 1598. Original section/article: 686. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the scope of civil defence
1. Authorized body in the scope of civil defence shall consider the cases on administrative infractions:
1) in the field of fire safety stipulated in Articles 336, 359, 367, 410, 410-1, 411, 438 (part one), 589 hereof;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
3) in the field of civil defence provided by Articles 412 and 643 of this Code;
4) in the field of prevention of natural and man-made emergencies as stipulated in

Section 1599. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. On behalf of the authorities of the state fire service, to consider cases and impose administrative sanction on behalf of the authorized authority in the field of civil protection shall have the right:
1) the state inspector of region, city of republican significance, the capital, district, city of regional significance, district in city for state control in the field of fire safety - a fine on individuals up to fifteen, on officials, small entrepreneurship - up to thirty-five monthly calculation indices;
2) the state inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for state control in the field of fire safety, the chief state inspector of region, city of republican significance, the capital for state control in the field of fire safety and his deputy - a fine on individuals up to thirty-five, on officials - up to one hundred, on entrepreneurship entities, non-profit organizations - up to three hundred monthly calculation indices;
3) the chief state inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for state control in the field of fire safety and his deputy - a fine on individuals up to two hundred, for officials - up to five hundred, for entrepreneurship entities, non-profit organizations - up to two thousand monthly calculation indices. 
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
4. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infarctions linked with non-performance of the measures of civil defence, and to impose the administrative sanctions in the scope of civil defence:
1) the state inspector of area, city of republican value, the capital, area, city of regional value, the area in the city on the state control in the field of civil defense – a penalty on natural persons to eight, on official and legal entities – to twenty five sizes of a monthly settlement indicator;
2) the state state control inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of civil defense, the chief state inspector of area, city of republican value, the capital on the state control in the field of civil defense and his deputy – a penalty on natural persons, on official and legal entities – to fifty five sizes of a monthly settlement indicator;
3) the chief state state control inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of civil defense and his deputy – a penalty on natural persons, on official and legal entities – to sixty five sizes of a monthly settlement indicator.
5. The following persons shall be entitled to review cases concerning administrative offences relating to the failure to implement civil defence measures aimed at preventing natural and man-made emergencies, and to impose administrative penalties on behalf of the competent civil defence authority:
1) a state inspector for the region, a city of national importance, or the capital, responsible for state oversight in the field of emergency prevention – in respect of administrative offences specified in part one of

Section 1600. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) the state inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for state supervision in the field of emergency prevention; the chief state inspector of a region, a city of national importance, or the capital for state supervision in the field of emergency prevention; and his or her deputy – in respect of administrative offences specified in parts one and two of

Section 1601. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) the Chief State Inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for State Supervision in the Field of Emergency Prevention and his Deputy – in respect of administrative offences stipulated in

Section 1602. Original section/article: 411-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 1603. Original section/article: 686. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.09.2025); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall come into force on 01.01.2027).

Section 1604. Original section/article: 686-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of mobilization training
1. Authorized body in the field of mobilization training shall consider cases on administrative infractions, provided for by

Section 1605. Original section/article: 643-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized body in the field of mobilization training and his deputies shall have the right to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1606. Original section/article: 686-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 332-VI (shall be enforced upon expiration of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1607. Original section/article: 687. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized agency on study of subsoil 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 1608. Original section/article: 687. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Authorized body on study of subsoil shall consider the cases on administrative infractiiions, provided for by Articles 349, 350, 352, 353, 354, 355, 356 (part one), 391 of this Code..
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the territorial senior state and territorial state inspectors on study and use of subsoil – a fine up to one hundred fifty monthly calculation indices;
2) the state inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan on study and use of subsoil, the deputies of territorial chief state inspectors on study and use of subsoil – a fine up to two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices;
3) the senior state inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan on study and use of subsoil, the territorial chief state inspectors on study and use of subsoil – a fine up to five hundred monthly calculation indices;
4) the chief state inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan on study and use of subsoil and his (her) deputies – a fine up to one thousand monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1609. Original section/article: 687. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1610. Original section/article: 687-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized agency in the field of solid minerals 
1. Authorized body in the field of solid minerals shall consider the cases on administrative infractions, provided for by Articles 346, 349, 353 of this Code.
2. Heads and authorized officials of the authorized agency in the field of solid minerals shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative offences and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1611. Original section/article: 687-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1612. Original section/article: 688. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized agency in the field of hydrocarbons 
1. The competent authority in the field of hydrocarbons shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by 170 (parts one, 1-1, two, three, four, five, six and seven), 281 (parts seven, eight, nine and ten), 345, 348, 349, 350, 353 (part one) (as regards hydrocarbon exploration and (or) production operations), 356 (parts one, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, eleven, twelve and thirteen), 464 (part one), 635 (part three) hereof.
2. Officials of the competent authority in the field of hydrocarbons, as well as heads of its territorial units and their deputies shall be entitled to hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1613. Original section/article: 688. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1614. Original section/article: 688-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized agency in the field of uranium mining 
1. Authorized body in the field of uranium mining shall consider cases on administrative infractions, provided for by Articles 345, 346, 349, 350, 353 (in terms of uranium mining operations) of this Code.
2. Officials of the competent authority in the field of uranium mining, as well as heads of its territorial units and their deputies may hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1615. Original section/article: 688-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1616. Original section/article: 689. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The body carrying out the state control in the field of energy saving and increase of energy efficiency
1. The agency exercising the state control in the field of energy saving and increase of energy efficiency shall consider cases on administrative offenses provided by articles 289, 292, 293, 296 of this Code.
2. The heads of territorial subdivisions of the body carrying out the state control in the field of energy saving and increase of energy efficiency shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1617. Original section/article: 689. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1618. Original section/article: 690. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The bodies on the state energy supervision and control
1. The state energy supervision and control bodies shall consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 172 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and consumers of thermal energy), 300 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and consumers of thermal energy), 300-1, 300-2 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-1 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-2 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-3 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 302, 303 (except for heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and consumers of thermal energy), 304 (except for heating networks in the local heat supply system), 305 (except for protection zones of heating networks in the local heat supply system), 309-1, 309-2 (in terms of heating networks within centralized heat supply systems) of this Code.
2. The heads of territorial subdivisions of the bodies on the state energy supervision and control shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1619. Original section/article: 690. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 14.01.2015 № 279-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced after twenty one calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 11.07.2017 № 89-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1620. Original section/article: 690-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of use of atomic energy 
1. The authorized authority in the field of use of atomic energy shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 297, 413, 413-1, 414, 464 of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties on behalf of authorized body in the field of use of atomic energy the having the right head of the department which is the licensor in the sphere of use of atomic energy and his deputies.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1621. Original section/article: 690-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1622. Original section/article: 691. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority in the field of transport and communications 
1. The authorized authority in the field of transport and communications shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 230 (part two) (in terms of infractions committed by carriers on railway, sea and inland water transport), 464, 564 (parts one, two, three and four), 565, 580, 581 (part one), 582, 583, 633, 634of this Code. 
The heads of the authorized authority in the field of transport and communications, its territorial divisions and their deputies shall have the right to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions. 
2. Transport control authorities consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 464, 559 (parts two, three, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth), 561, 571, 571-1, 572, 573, 575, 577, 578, 579, 580, 581, 582, 583, 584, 585, 586, 587, 588, 590 (part eight), 616, 618, 621 (part one, two and four), 623, 624-1 , 625 (with regard to violations in road transport), 627, 628 of this Code. 
The following shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions on behalf of the transport control authorities:
1) for all Articles of this Code related to the jurisdiction of transport control authorities - the head of the transport control authority and his deputies, heads of territorial transport control authorities and their deputies; 
2) for administrative infractions provided by Articles 464 (part one), 561, 571 (parts two, 2-1, three, four, five seven and eight), 571-1 (part one), 572, 573, 582, 583, 584, 585, 586, 587, 588, 616 (part one), 621 (parts one, two and four), 623, 625 (with regard to violations in road transport), 627 of this Code, - authorized officials transport control authorities.
The amount of fine imposed by the officials specified in Paragraph four of part two of this Article may not exceed twenty monthly calculation indices.
3. The authorized authority in the field of civil aviation shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 164, 166, 167, 230 (part two) (in terms of offenses committed by air carriers), 250, 563 (part one), 564 (for with the exception of cases of violations provided for in parts one, three, four (committed at aerodromes other than civil aviation, or in the area of ​​such aerodromes) and part five), 565, 565-1, 565-2, 567, 568, 569 (parts three, five, six, seven and eight), 570, 571 (part one), 589 (regarding violations in air transport), 626 of this Code. 
The following shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions on behalf of the authorized authority in the field of civil aviation:
1) for all Articles of this Code referred to the jurisdiction of the authorized authority in the field of civil aviation - the head of the authorized authority in the field of civil aviation and his deputies;
2) for administrative infractions provided by Articles 564 (except for cases of violations provided by parts one, three, four (committed at aerodromes that are not related to civil aviation, or in the area of such aerodromes) and part five), 565, 569 (parts three, five, six and seven), 589 (in terms of violations in air transport) of this Code, - authorized officials of the authorized authority in the field of civil aviation.
Footnote.

Section 1623. Original section/article: 691. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1624. Original section/article: 692. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of communications and informatization 
1. The authorized body in the field of informatization and communications considers cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 164, 250, 464, 637, 638 (part one) of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties has the right:
1) the head of authorized body in the field of informatization and communication and his deputies;
2) heads of territorial authorities of authorized body in the field of informatization and communication.
Footnote.

Section 1625. Original section/article: 692. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); ); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1626. Original section/article: 692-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in mass media 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1627. Original section/article: 692-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 19, 2024 № 95-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. The authorized body in mass media shall consider administrative offenses cases provided for in Articles 451 (parts four, five, six, seven, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen and fifteen), 454, 455 (part one, subparagraphs 1 ), 2), 3) and 5) parts two, parts four and five), 456 and 464 of this Code, within their competence.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties has the right:
1) the head of authorized body in the field of information and his deputies.
2) it is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication). 
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1628. Original section/article: 692-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 24.11 2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); with the changes made by laws RK from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 215-VІ dated 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1629. Original section/article: 692-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the sphere of ensuring information security
1. Authorized body in the sphere of ensuring information security shall consider cases of the administrative infractions, provided for by Articles 79, 639, 640, 641 of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties has the right:
1) the head of authorized body in the sphere of ensuring information security and his deputies;
2) the head of department of authorized body in the sphere of ensuring information security and his deputies.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1630. Original section/article: 692-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication)$ № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1631. Original section/article: 692-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The competent authority for artificial intelligence 
1. The competent authority in the field of artificial intelligence shall hear cases concerning administrative offences referred to in

Section 1632. Original section/article: 641-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The head of the competent authority in the field of artificial intelligence and his or her deputies shall be entitled to review cases concerning administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 has been supplemented with

Section 1633. Original section/article: 692-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1634. Original section/article: 693. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The bodies carrying out state control in the field of labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The bodies of the state labor inspectorate consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 83 (in terms of offenses committed by employers), 86, 87, 88, 89 (with the exception of employers who are in a relationship with a civil servant), 90, 93 (parts one, three, four, five, six and seven), 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 230 (part two in terms of offenses committed by employers), 519 of this Code. 
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
3. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) state labour inspectors;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
Footnote.

Section 1635. Original section/article: 693. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023).

Section 1636. Original section/article: 694. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies of justice
1. The justice authorities shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 230 (part two, when these violations were committed by private notaries), 457, 468, 670, 671 and 672 of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized body in the field of state registration of regulatory legal acts, in the field of enforcement of executive documents and their deputies, heads of regional, cities of republican significance and the capital of justice bodies and their deputies, as well as heads of district and city departments of justice shall be eligible to consider cases on administrative infractions and to impose sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1637. Original section/article: 694. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); with the changes made by laws Republic of Kazakhstan from 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced after thirty calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 210-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1638. Original section/article: 695. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Competent authority in the field of state registration of legal entities and acts of civil status
Footnote. The title of

Section 1639. Original section/article: 695. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. The competent authority in the field of state registration of legal entities and acts of civil status shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 466 and 491 of this Code.
2. The heads of the competent authority in the field of state registration of legal entities and acts of civil status, its territorial units and their deputies may hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1640. Original section/article: 695. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 7/26/2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced after thirty calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 134-VI dated 10.01.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 26.01.2021 № 412-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1641. Original section/article: 696. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies of migration
Footnote.

Section 1642. Original section/article: 696. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1643. Original section/article: 697. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of environmental protection
1. Authorized body in the field of environmental protection shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided for by Articles 139 (part one), 230 (part two in terms of infractions committed by persons carrying out environmentally hazardous economic and other activities), 297 (part one), 324 , 325 , 326 , 327-1, 327-2 (part one), 328 (parts one, two, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten and eleven), 329 , 330 , 331 (parts one, two and three), 332 , 333 , 334 , 336 , 337 (parts three and four), 343-1, 344 (parts two, 2-1, three, four and five), 344-1 , 344-2 , 346 , 347 , 352 , 353 (part one), 356 (part two), 358 , 377 (part one), 399 , 464 of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the state environmental inspectors and senior state environmental inspectors of oblasts, cities of republican significance, the capital – a fine on individuals up to twenty, on civil servants – up to fifty, on legal entities – up to two hundred monthly calculation indices;
2) the state environmental inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan – a fine on individuals up to twenty, on civil servants – up to seventy, on legal entities – up to two hundred fifty monthly calculation indices;
3) the senior state environmental inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan – a fine on individuals up to forty, on civil servants – up to three hundred, on legal entities – up to five hundred monthly calculation indices;
4) the senior state environmental inspectors of oblasts, cities of republican significance, the capital – a fine on individuals до fifty, on officials – up to one hundred and fifty, on legal entities – up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, as well as a fine expressed as a percentage of the amount of the rate of payment for the negative impact on the environment, the amount of economic benefit received as a result of violation of the requirements of the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or the amount of damage caused as a result of violation of state ownership of the subsoil;
5) The Chief state environmental inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his (her) deputy – a fine on individuals до fifty, on officials – up to one hundred and fifty, on legal entities – p to two thousand monthly calculation indices, as well as a fine expressed as a percentage of the amount of the rate of payment for the negative impact on the environment, the amount of economic benefit received as a result of violation of the requirements of the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or the amount of damage caused as a result violation of state ownership of subsoil.
Footnote.

Section 1644. Original section/article: 697. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); № 126-VI dated 27.12.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1645. Original section/article: 698. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority in the field of industrial safety
1. The authorized body in the field of industrial safety shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided for in Articles 297, 298 (with the exception of social infrastructure facilities), 299 (parts one and two) (with the exception of the safety of hydraulic engineering structures), 305 (regarding violations in the security zones of industrial consumer gas supply systems), 306, 307 (regarding industrial consumers), 308, 352, 353 (part one) (regarding technical safety), 464 (part one) of this Code.
2. The following shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative infractions in the field of industrial safety and impose administrative sanctions on behalf of the authorized authority in the field of industrial safety: 
1) Chief State Inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for State Control and Supervision in the Field of Industrial Safety and his/her Deputy;
2) the State Inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for State Control and Supervision in the Field of Industrial Safety; the Chief State Inspector for State Control and Supervision in the Field of Industrial Safety for a region, a city of national importance, or the capital; and his or her deputy;
3) the State Inspector of the region, city of national importance, or the capital for state control and supervision in the field of industrial safety.
The amount of fine imposed by the officials indicated in paragraph four of part two of this Article may not exceed fifteen monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1646. Original section/article: 698. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall come into force on 01.01.2026).

Section 1647. Original section/article: 698-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of regulation of production of precious metals and turnover of precious metals and gemstones, the raw materials containing precious metals, jewelry and other products from precious metals and gemstones
1. The authorized body in the field of regulation of production of precious metals and turnover of precious metals and gemstones, the raw materials containing precious metals, jewelry and other products from precious metals and gemstones considers the cases of administrative offenses provided by

Section 1648. Original section/article: 297-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code.
2. The head of the competent authority in the field of regulation of production of precious metals and turnover of precious metals and precious stones, raw materials containing precious metals, jewellery and other products made of precious metals and precious stones and his/her deputies shall have the right to hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1649. Original section/article: 698-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 14.01.2015 № 445-V (shall be enforced after twenty one calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1650. Original section/article: 699. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Bodies of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 642, 644, 645, 646, 647, 648, 649, 650 of this Code.
2. The heads of local military authorities and their deputies may hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties on behalf of the bodies of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1651. Original section/article: 699. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1652. Original section/article: 699-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authority in the field of space activity
1. The authorized authority in the field of space activity shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 310, 311 of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized authority in the field of space activity and his deputies shall have the right to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1653. Original section/article: 699-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1654. Original section/article: 700. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Healthcare authorities
1. The state body in the field of circulation of medicines and medical devices and its territorial divisions consider cases of administrative infractions provided for by Articles 424 (part one), 426 (parts one, 2-1 and 2-2), 428, 429 (part two), 430, 432, 464 of this Code, within its competence.
The head of the state authority in the field of circulation of medicines and medical devices, his deputies, heads of territorial divisions and their deputies shall have the right to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
2. The public authority in the sphere of provision of medical services (assistance) and its territorial units shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by 80 (parts 2-1, three and four), 80-1 (parts one and three), 81 (part one), 82 (part one), 230 (part two) (as regards offences committed by health care entities under professional liability insurance for health care workers), 424 (parts one, two and four), 428, 432, 433 (part one), 464 (part one) hereof, within the limits of their competence.
The head of the state body in the field of medical services (assistance), his deputies, heads of territorial divisions and their deputies shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative infractions and to impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1655. Original section/article: 700. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1656. Original section/article: 701. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The state body in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population
Footnote. The heading of

Section 1657. Original section/article: 701. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Public authorities exercising control and supervision in the sphere of sanitary-epidemiological well-being of the population shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 93 (parts two and five), 203, 425 (part one), 428, 429 (part one), 431, 433 (part one), 464 (part one) hereof.
The head of the state authority in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, his deputies, heads of territorial divisions and their deputies shall have the right to consider cases of administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1658. Original section/article: 701. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1659. Original section/article: 702. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Structural subdivisions of the internal affairs bodies, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan carrying out the state sanitary and epidemiological control and supervision
1. Structural subdivisions of the internal affairs bodies, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan carrying out the state sanitary and epidemiological control and supervision shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1660. Original section/article: 425. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part one) of this Code on the violations of sanitary rules and hygienic standards on objects respectively: subordinated to the internal affairs bodies and the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan; located in a territory of military towns and training centres of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The heads and their deputies or authorized civil servants of the structural subdivisions of the internal affairs bodies, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Kazakhstan carrying out the state and epidemiological control and supervision shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.

Section 1661. Original section/article: 703. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of veterinary medicine
1. The civil servants of the authorized body in the field of veterinary medicine shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 406, 415 (part one) of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions in accordance with Articles 406, 415 (part one) of this Code:
1) the Chief state veterinary and sanitary inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his (her) deputies;
2) the state veterinary and sanitary inspectors on veterinary control posts;
3) the chief state veterinary and sanitary inspectors of oblasts, cities of republican significance, the capital and their deputies;
4) the state veterinary and sanitary inspectors of oblasts, cities of republican significance, the capital;
5) the chief state veterinary and sanitary inspectors and their deputies, the state veterinary and sanitary inspectors of districts, cities of oblast significance.
3. The civil servants of the authorized body in the field of veterinary medicine may recover on the spot:
1) at places of selling – for violation of the veterinary (veterinary and sanitary) rules upon selling animals, products and raw materials of animal origin;
2) on railroad, water and air transport, on roads and cattle-driving routes – for violation of the veterinary (veterinary and sanitary) rules upon carrying out the transportation (movement) of the objects subordinated to the state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as upon cattle driving;
3) on the state border – for violation of the veterinary (veterinary and sanitary) rules in part of protection of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from importation and spreading infectious and foreign animal diseases from other states.
Footnote.

Section 1662. Original section/article: 703. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1663. Original section/article: 704. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of livestock breeding
1. The civil servants of the authorized body in the field of livestock breeding shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1664. Original section/article: 407. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part one) of this Code.
2. State inspectors for breeding livestock breeding may investigate cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1665. Original section/article: 704. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1666. Original section/article: 705. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body on plant quarantine
1. The authorized body on plant quarantine and its bodies shall consider the cases on the spot on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1667. Original section/article: 400. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, three and four) of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the Chief state inspector on plant quarantine of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his (her) deputies;
2) the chief state inspectors for plant quarantine of the corresponding regions, cities of republican significance, capital, districts, cities of regional significance;
3) the state inspectors for plant quarantine.
Footnote.

Section 1668. Original section/article: 705. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); № 210-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1669. Original section/article: 706. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of regulation of the grain market and seed farming
Footnote.

Section 1670. Original section/article: 706. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Authorized body in the field of regulation of the grain market and seed farming and its territorial authorities consider cases of the administrative offenses provided by articles 401 (part one), 402 (a part of the fifth) of the present Code.
2. The heads of territorial bodies and their deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the relevant administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1671. Original section/article: 706. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); with the changes made by laws RK from 04.12.2015 № 435-V (shall be enforced 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1672. Original section/article: 707. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of plant protection
1. The authorized authority in the field of plant protection and its local divisions shall consider cases of administrative infractions provided by Articles 297, 377, 403, 415 (subparagraph 1) of part one) (in terms of violation of the requirements of technical regulations in the field of pesticide circulation) of this Code. 
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the Chief state inspector on plant protection of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) the chief state inspectors on plant protection of the relevant administrative territorial entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) the state inspectors on plant protection.
Footnote.

Section 1673. Original section/article: 707. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1674. Original section/article: 708. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized bodies in the field of water resources protection and use
Footnote. The title of

Section 1675. Original section/article: 708. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Authorized bodies in the field of water resources protection and use shall consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 138 (part two), 141, 164, 299 (parts one and two (except for industrial safety), 358, 359, 359-1, 360 (parts two and three), 361, 362, 363, 365 of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider cases of administrative offences and impose administrative penalties:
1) chief State inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of water resources protection and use and his deputy, the chief state inspectors of water management basins and their deputies - a fine for individuals up to two hundred, for officials, small or medium-sized businesses or non-profit organizations - up to seven hundred and fifty, for large businesses - up to two thousand monthly calculation indices;
2) senior State inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of water resources protection and use, senior state inspectors of water management basins - a fine for individuals up to one hundred and seventy, for officials, small or medium-sized businesses or non-profit organizations - up to seven hundred, for large businesses - up to one thousand eight hundred monthly calculation indices;
3) state inspectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of water resources protection and use, state inspectors of water management basins - a fine for individuals up to one hundred and fifty, for officials, small or medium-sized businesses or non-profit organizations - up to six hundred, for large businesses - up to one thousand five hundred times the monthly calculation index; 
4) heads and their deputies or authorized officials of structural divisions of the authorized body in the field of water resources protection and use for administrative offenses provided for in

Section 1676. Original section/article: 164. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 1677. Original section/article: 708. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1678. Original section/article: 709. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Competent authorities in the field of forestry, the conservation, reproduction and use of wildlife, the conservation, protection, restoration and use of flora, and specially protected natural areas 
1. Competent authorities responsible for forestry, the conservation, reproduction and use of wildlife, the conservation, protection, restoration and use of flora, and specially protected natural areas shall hear cases concerning administrative offences referred to in Articles 138 (part two), 142, 143 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376, 377 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 378 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380, 380-1, 381, 382 (part one), 383 (parts one, two and five), 384, 385 (part one), 386, 387, 388, 390 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 394 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 396 (part one) (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-1 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-2 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 464 of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to hear cases concerning administrative offences and impose administrative penalties on behalf of the competent authorities in the fields of forestry, the conservation, reproduction and use of wildlife, the conservation, protection, restoration and use of flora, and specially protected natural areas:
1) for administrative offences under Articles 138 (part two), 142, 143 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376, 377 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 378 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380, 380-1, 381, 382 (part one), 383 (parts one, two and five), 384, 385 (part one), 386, 387, 388, 390 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 394 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 396 (part one), 407-1 (excluding aquatic animals), 407-2 (excluding aquatic animals), and 464 of this Code, – officials of the competent authorities involved in forestry, the conservation, reproduction and use of wildlife, the conservation, protection, restoration and use of flora, and specially protected natural areas in the Republic of Kazakhstan, and their territorial bodies;
2) for administrative offences under Articles 138 (part two), 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 377 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 381, 382 (part one), 387, 388, 407-1 ((excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-2 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals) of this Code – heads and deputy heads of state forestry agencies;
3) for administrative offences under Articles 138 (part two), 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 377 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 381, 382 (part one), 387, 388, 407-1 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-2 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals) under this Code – officials of the forestry, wildlife conservation, reproduction and utilisation departments of regional executive bodies;
4) for administrative offences under Articles 138 (part two), 143 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367 (part three), 368 (part two), 369 (part two), 370 (part four), 371, 372 (part four), 373 (part two), 374 (part two), 377 (part two) (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380-1 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 381, 382 ((part one), 384, 387, 388, 407-1 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-2 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals) of this Code – heads, deputy heads and heads of security services of specially protected natural areas established in the organisational and legal form of a state institution.
Footnote.

Section 1679. Original section/article: 709. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
– as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall take effect on the date of its first official publication).

Section 1680. Original section/article: 709-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The competent authority for fisheries 
1. The competent authority for fisheries shall examine cases concerning administrative offences referred to in Articles 143 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 377 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 378 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 379 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 380-1 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 382 (part 1), 383 (parts 1, 2 and 5), 384, 390 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 392 (part one), 394 ((in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 395 (part 1), 396 (part 1) (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-1 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 407-2 (in respect of fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 464 of this Code.
2. Officials of the department of the competent authority for fisheries and its regional offices shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 has been supplemented by

Section 1681. Original section/article: 709-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
pursuant to Law № 247-VIII of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 30.12.2025 (shall be effective from the date of its first official publication).

Section 1682. Original section/article: 710. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies carrying out the state control of use and protection of lands
1. The department of the central authorized body for land management and its territorial divisions consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 136, 137, 138 (part one), 337 (parts one and two), 338, 339, 340, 341, 342, 342-1 of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the chief state inspector for the use and protection of lands of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the chief state inspectors for the use and protection of lands of the relevant administrative-territorial units – a fine for individuals up to seventy–five, for officials, small businesses, non–profit organizations - up to seven hundred, for medium-sized businesses - up to one thousand, for large business entities – up to two thousand monthly calculation indexes;
2) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
3) the state inspectors on use and protection of the lands – a fine on individuals up to seventy five, on civil servants, subjects of small or medium entrepreneurship or non-profit organizations – up to one hundred fifty, on subjects of large entrepreneurship – up to three hundred monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 1683. Original section/article: 710. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); № 151-VI dated 04.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforce ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1684. Original section/article: 711. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body on investments
1. Authorized body on investments shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 148 of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized body on investments and his (her) deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.

Section 1685. Original section/article: 712. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies exercising state control over geodetic and cartographic activities 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1686. Original section/article: 712. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. The authorized body in the field of geodesy, cartography and spatial data considers cases of administrative offenses provided for in

Section 1687. Original section/article: 343. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. Officials of the department of the authorized body in the field of geodesy, cartography and spatial data have the right to consider cases of administrative offenses and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1688. Original section/article: 712. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1689. Original section/article: 713. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Anti-monopoly body
1. The antimonopoly authority shall consider cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 159 (parts five and six), 160 (part one), 161, 162, 163, 163-1, 185 (when these violations are committed by stockbrokers and (or) stock dealers, as well as employees of commodity exchanges), 268, 464 hereof. 
2. The head of anti-monopoly body and his (her) deputies, as well as the heads of territorial body and their deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1690. Original section/article: 713. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1691. Original section/article: 714. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The authorized body performing management in spheres of natural monopolies
1. The authorized authority exercising leadership in the spheres of natural monopolies shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 250, 464 of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties the head of the authorized body performing management in spheres of natural monopolies and his deputies and also heads of territorial divisions of the authorized body performing management in spheres of natural monopolies and their deputies has the right.
Footnote.

Section 1692. Original section/article: 714. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1693. Original section/article: 715. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Agencies carrying out the state control for technical regulation, ensuring the uniformity of measurements and for standardization 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 1694. Original section/article: 715. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).
1. Bodies exercising state control in the field of technical regulation, ensuring the uniformity of measurements and in the field of standardisation shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 190-1, 193 (part one), 415 (part one), 415-1, 417, 418 (parts one and two), 419, 464, 638 (part one) hereof.
2. The Chief state inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the state control and supervision and his (her) deputies, as well as the chief state inspectors of oblasts and cities on state control and supervision and their deputies shall have the right to impose the sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1695. Original section/article: 715. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 21.04.2016 № 504-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1696. Original section/article: 715-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the sphere of consumer protection
1. The authorized body for protection of consumers' rights shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided for by Articles 157, 190 (parts one, five and six), 193 (parts one, four and five) of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties the head of authorized body in the sphere of consumer protection, his deputies, heads of territorial divisions and their deputies has the right.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1697. Original section/article: 715-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 21.04.2016 № 504-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1698. Original section/article: 716. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body on registration of agricultural equipment
1. The authorized authority for registration of agricultural machinery shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 590 (parts one, two) (in terms of infractions committed by drivers of tractors, self-propelled agricultural, land reclamation and road-building machines), 612 (parts one, two, four, five and six), 617, 619, 627 of this Code, in the part concerning agricultural machinery, tractors and other self-propelled machinery and equipment supervised by the authorized authorities for registration.
2. The engineers-inspectors of district and oblast authorized bodies on registration of agricultural equipment shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions in behalf of the authorized body on registration of agricultural equipment.
Footnote.

Section 1699. Original section/article: 716. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1700. Original section/article: 717. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized state body in the field of plant production
Footnote.

Section 1701. Original section/article: 717. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced from 06.01.2020).

Section 1702. Original section/article: 718. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies carrying out the state architectural and construction control and supervision of quality of construction of objects
1. Bodies exercising state architectural and construction control and supervision over the quality of construction of facilities shall hear cases on administrative offences under Articles 309, 312, 313, 314, 315, 316, 317, 317-1, 317-2, 318, 321, 322, 323 and 464 hereof.
1-1. The authorized body for architecture, town planning and construction considers cases of the administrative offenses provided by

Section 1703. Original section/article: 323-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code.
2. The Chief state building inspector of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his (her) deputies, as well as the chief state building inspectors of oblasts, cities of republican significance, the capital shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1704. Original section/article: 718. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.10.2015 № 366-V (an order of enforcement see Art. 2); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1705. Original section/article: 719. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of state statistics
1. The authorized authority in the field of state statistics shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 497, 499, 501, 503 of this Code.
2. Heads of territorial units of the competent authority for state statistics and their deputies shall be entitled to consider cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1706. Original section/article: 719. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1707. Original section/article: 720. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
State revenues bodies
1. State revenue authorities shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 91 (parts six, seven and eight), 92 (parts two, three and four), 92-1, 151 (part one), 153, 155, 174 (parts one, three and four), 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 181-1, 182, 194, 195, 221, 233 (part one), 239 (parts one and two), 244 (parts one, two, three and four), 246-1 (when these violations are committed in the course of the audit of tax), 266, 269, 270, 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279, 280, 280-1, 281 (parts one, two, 2-1, 2-2 and three), 282 (parts one, two, 2-1, 2-2, five, ten and twelve), 283-1 (parts one, two, three and four), 284, 285, 285-1, 286, 287, 288, 460-1, 460-2, 464, 471, 472, 473, 474, 521, 522, 523, 524, 525, 526, 527, 528 (parts one, two and three), 529, 530, 531, 532 (part one), 533, 534, 535, 536, 537, 538, 539, 540, 542, 543 (parts one, 1-1 and two), 546, 547, 548 (part one), 551 (parts one, two and four), 552 (part one), 553, 554, 555, 556, 557, 558, 571 (parts one, two, 2-1 and three), 571-1 hereof.
2. State revenue authorities shall also consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 230 (part two), 297, 334, 377 (part one), 425 (part one), 571 (parts five, six, seven and eight), 571-1, 572 (part one), 573, 589 (for administrative infractions in road transport), 590 (parts one, two, five, six, seven, eight and ten), 612 (part one), 621 (part four) of this of the Code, when the administrative infractions listed in this part were committed at automobile, sea checkpoints and in other places of movement of goods across the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
3. Heads of state revenue authorities and their deputies may hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties on behalf of state revenue authorities:
under all articles hereof, attributed to the jurisdiction of state revenue authorities - heads of state revenue authorities and their deputies;
for administrative offences under Articles 91 (part six), 92 (part two), 92-1 (part one), 177 (parts five and eleven), 179 (parts four, fourteen, fifteen and seventeen), 181 (parts five, eleven and twelve), 194 (part one), 195 (part one), 269 (part one), 270 (parts one and three), 271 (part one), 272 (parts one and 2-1), 276 (parts one and three), 280-1 (parts one and three), 284 (parts one, three, five, seven, nine, eleven, thirteen, fifteen, seventeen and nineteen), 288 ((part one), 460-2 (part one), 525 (part one), 535 (part one), 558 (part one), administrative penalty in the form of a warning, as well as in the form of a fine under the procedure envisaged by

Section 1708. Original section/article: 897. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof, as well as for offences in the field of customs affairs - by the officials of the state revenue authorities authorised by the head of the state revenue authorities.
Footnote.

Section 1709. Original section/article: 720. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 06.04.2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced after two months after day of its first official publication); from 30.11.2016 № 26-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); from 03.07.2017 № 83-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1710. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 24-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1711. Original section/article: 721. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body for civil service affairs 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1712. Original section/article: 721. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2020 № 357-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. The authorized body for civil service affairs considers cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 89, (in terms of offenses committed by an employer who is in a relationship with a civil servant) 99 and 475 of this Code.
2. The head of the structural subdivision of the authorized body for civil service affairs and his deputies, heads of territorial divisions of the authorized body for civil service affairs and their deputies have the right to consider cases of administrative offenses and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1713. Original section/article: 721. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 06.04.2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.11.2015 № 412-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 357-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1714. Original section/article: 722. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The bodies of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 184, 185 (when these violations are committed by auditors, audit organizations, appraisers), 207, 207-1, 209, 216, 219, 230 ( part two, when these violations are committed by audit organizations), 233 (parts two, three and four), 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239 ( parts one, two and five), 239-1, 240, 241, 246-1 (when these violations are committed during the special purpose audit of entities of the quasi-public sector), 247 (parts one, two, three, five, seven, 7-1, nine and ten), 248, 249, 250, 267, 464 (when these violations are committed by audit organizations) of this Code.
2. To consider cases of administrative offenses and to impose administrative penalties has the right:
1) the head of authorized body on internal state audit, his deputies and heads of territorial divisions;
2) the head of the authorized state agency carrying out the regulation for auditing and valuation activities, his deputies and heads of territorial divisions.
Footnote.

Section 1715. Original section/article: 722. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 134-VI dated 10.01.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2018 № 202-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1716. Original section/article: 722-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the audit commissions of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital 
Footnote. The title of

Section 1717. Original section/article: 722-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. The Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the audit commissions of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital consider cases of administrative offenses provided for in Articles 216, 219, 233 (parts three and four), 235, 236, 237, 247 ( part six) of this Code.
2. The state auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the audit commissions of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital are entitled to consider cases of administrative offenses and impose established administrative penalties under Articles 216, 219, 233 (parts three and four), 235, 236, 237, 247 (part six) of this Code.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1718. Original section/article: 722-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1719. Original section/article: 722-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Financial monitoring authorities 
1. Financial monitoring authorities shall examine cases concerning administrative offences specified in Articles 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen) (where such infringements are committed by legal advisers, independent legal experts, sole traders and legal entities engaged in leasing activities as lessors without a licence, providing intermediary services in the sale and purchase of immovable property, or engaging in transactions involving precious metals and gemstones, jewellery made from them, accounting firms and professional accountants engaged in business activities in the field of accounting, the Government for Citizens State Corporation and mobile network operators),

Section 1720. Original section/article: 214-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The heads of financial monitoring bodies, their deputies and authorised staff shall be entitled to examine cases of administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1721. Original section/article: 722-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2022 № 132-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as revised by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1722. Original section/article: 723. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in internal control
Footnote.

Section 1723. Original section/article: 723. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1724. Original section/article: 724. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 206, 210, 210-1, 212, 213 (parts five and fifteen), 217, 218, 220 (parts seven and eight (in respect of payment organisations), 227 (parts one (in respect of legal entities operating exclusively via exchange bureaus based on the licence of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for exchange operations with foreign currency in cash), 1-1 and three ( with regard to operators of payment systems, operational centres of payment systems and payment service providers), 239 (parts three and four (with regard to legal entities operating exclusively via exchange bureaus under a licence of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for exchange operations with foreign currency in cash), 243, 244 (parts 1-1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8), 252, 252-1, 253, 464, 497 (in the part of primary statistical data whose collection falls within its competence) hereof.
3. The powers of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as his (her) employees having the right to drawing up the protocol on commission of the administrative infraction shall be determined in accordance with this Code.
Footnote.

Section 1725. Original section/article: 724. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced after twenty one calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 24-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1726. Original section/article: 724-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations
1. The competent authority on regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organisations shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 91 (parts one, five, nine, ten, eleven and twelve), 185 (when these violations are committed by banks, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations, organisations engaged in microfinance activities, collection agencies), 186, 208, 211, 211-1, 211-2, 213 (parts four, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, threeteen and fourteen), 215-1, 220 (parts one, two, three, four, 4-1, five, seven and eight (in relation to banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations), 222, 223, 224, 225, 226, 227 (parts one (in relation to banks, branches of banks - non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, major participants of banks, bank holdings, organisations that are part of a banking conglomerate, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, organisations engaged in certain types of banking operations (excluding legal entities operating exclusively via exchange bureaux under licence of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for exchange operations with foreign currency in cash and legal entities whose exclusive activity is collection of banknotes, coins and valuables), two, three (with respect to securities market entities, the unified accumulative pension fund, organisations engaged in microfinance activities), four and five), 228, 229, 230 (parts one, three, four, five and six), 231, 232, 239 (parts three and four (in respect of financial organisations (excluding legal entities operating exclusively via exchange bureaux under a license of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for exchange operations with cash foreign currency, and legal entities whose exclusive activity is collection of banknotes, coins and valuables), branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan), 247 (parts four and eight), 256, 257, 259, 260, 261, 262, 264, 265, 286, 464 hereof.
2. The first head of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations, his deputies and authorized employees shall have the right to consider cases on administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
3. The powers of the authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations, as well as its employees entitled to draw up a protocol on commission of an administrative infraction, shall be determined in accordance with this Code.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1727. Original section/article: 724-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ ((порядок введения в действие см. ст. 2); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (порядок введения в действие см. ст. 2); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall entered into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1728. Original section/article: 725. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Social welfare bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The social welfare bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 83 (except for the infractions committed by the employees), 84, 91 (part four), 92 (part one) of this Code.
2. The heads of the social welfare bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, their deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative fines.

Section 1729. Original section/article: 726. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The National Security Bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The national security authorities shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 192, 464, 504, 518, 519 of this Code.
2. The head of the Department and his/her deputies, heads of territorial bodies, city, district departments (divisions, departments) and their deputies shall be entitled to hear cases on administrative offences and impose established administrative penalties under Articles 192, 464, 504, 518, 519 hereof.
3. The Border Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 382 (part one), 383 (parts one and two), 393 (committed in the border space), 394, 395 (part one), 396 (part one), 510 (parts one, two, three and five), 512 (part one), 513 (part one), 514 (part one), 515, 517 (part three) of this Code.
4. The following officials shall have the authority to hear cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties on behalf of the Border Guard Service of the National Security Committee:
1) the head of the Border Guard Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his/her deputies, heads of territorial units of the Border Guard Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their deputies - a warning or a fine for individuals and officials up to seventy monohly calculation indices, up to five hundred monthly calculation indices for private business entities; 
2) heads of border departments, border control departments, commanders of coast guard divisions of territorial units of the Border Guard Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their deputies - warning or fine of up to seventy times the monthly calculation index for individuals and officials, and up to two hundred times the monthly calculation index for private business entities;
3) heads of border control divisions, border guard divisions and their deputies - warning or fine of up to twenty-five times the monthly calculation index for individuals and for officials;
4) heads of border control offices, border guard offices, commanders of ships and boats and their deputies - a warning or a fine of up to twenty times the monthly calculation index for individuals; 
5) heads of groups (shifts) of border control divisions (departments) - warning or fine of up to fifteen monthly calculation indexes for individuals;
6) controllers, senior border guards performing tasks on protection of the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan - warning.
Footnote.

Section 1730. Original section/article: 726. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1731. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1732. Original section/article: 727. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Military police bodies
1. Military police bodies shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 511, 590 (parts one, two, three, five, six, seven, nine and ten), 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596 (parts one, two and four), 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596 (parts one, two and four), 597, 598 (part one), 599, 600, 601, 602, 603 (part three), 606 (part one), 607 (part one), 611 (part one), 612 (parts one, two, four, five and six), 613 (parts twelve and thirteen), 614, 615 (parts one, two, three and five), 617, 619, 619-1, 620, 621 (parts one, two and four), 651 (in respect of military personnel, chairpersons, deputies and members of medical, draft and selection commissions of local military administration bodies, military units (establishments) of this Code.
2. The authorized civil servants of the military police bodies shall consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
3. The competence of the military police bodies of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan o administrative infractions I the scope of transport shall apply to the military servants, persons liable for military service, called on military trainings, as well as to the persons operating military transport vehicles of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of parts four and five of this Article.
4. The competence of the military police bodies of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions in the scope of transport shall apply to the servants, employees and military servants operating transport vehicles of the special state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
5. The competence of the military police bodies of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions in the scope of transport shall apply to military servants, persons liable for military service, called on military trainings, as well as to the persons operating the military transport vehicles of the National Guard.
6. Materials on the violations committed by drivers of transport vehicles of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan – military servants and persons liable for military service, for which the fine is provided as administrative sanction in established manner, shall be transferred by the military police bodies to the relevant commanding officers (heads) for solution of the issue on bringing to responsibility on Disciplinary charter of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1733. Original section/article: 727. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 10.01.2015 № 275-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (order of enforcement see

Section 1734. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1735. Original section/article: 728. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies on state control of production and turnover of sub-excise products
Footnote.

Section 1736. Original section/article: 728. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1737. Original section/article: 728-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorities that are licensors or authorized to issue permits of the second category in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The authorities that are licensors or authorized to issue permits of the second category in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 464 of this Code.
2. The heads of state authorities that are licensors or authorized to issue permits of the second category, their deputies, heads of territorial divisions and their deputies shall have the right to consider cases on administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions. 
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1738. Original section/article: 728-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1739. Original section/article: 729. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Local executive authorities 
1. The local executive body of the region, city of national importance, capital, district, city of regional significance shall hear cases on administrative offences under Articles 75, 79, 138 (part two), 156, 172 (parts three, five and six (in the part of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and heat energy consumers), 199, 204, 205, 250 (with regard to regulation of activities of bread receiving enterprises), 298 (with regard to social infrastructure facilities), 300 (with regard to heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and heat consumers), 300-2 (with regard to heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301 (in terms of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-1 (in terms of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-2 (in terms of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 301-3 (in terms of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system), 303 (in terms of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system and heat energy consumers), 304 (in terms of heat networks of heat supply entities in the local heat supply system, heat consumers), 305 (in terms of protection zones of heat networks in local heat supply systems, heat consumers and facilities of gas supply systems for household and communal consumers), 306 (parts one and two), 307 (in relation to communal and household consumers), 309-2 (in relation to heat networks in local heat supply systems and heat consumers), 320, 353 (in relation to operations for the extraction of common minerals and prospecting), 382 (in part one), 383 (parts one and two), 401 (parts three, four, 4-1, five, six, seven, ten and eleven), 402 (parts one, two, three and four), 405, 407-1, 407-2, 408, 409 (parts eight, nine, ten and eleven), 418 (part 1-1), 451 (part sixteen), 455 (part one, subparagraphs 1), 2), 4), 6), 7), 8) and 9) of part two, parts three and five), 456-3 (частью первой), 464, 488-1, 505, 637 (частями четырнадцатой и пятнадцатой), 640, 641 hereof.
2. The akim of the region, city of national importance and the capital, district (city of national, regional importance and the capital) and his/her deputies shall have the authority to consider cases on administrative offences specified in part one of this article and impose administrative penalties.
2-1. The head of a structural unit of a local executive body exercising functions in the field of language development and his/her deputies shall be entitled to consider cases of administrative offences under

Section 1740. Original section/article: 75. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof and impose administrative penalties.
3. Akims of towns of district significance, settlements, villages, rural districts have the right to consider cases of administrative offenses and impose administrative penalties for administrative offenses provided for by Articles 146, 147, 172 (parts one, three and four) (regarding the operation of thermal mechanical equipment of boiler houses of all capacities and heating networks (trunk, intra-block), 204, 301 (in terms of boiler houses of all capacities and heating networks (main, intra-block), 303 (in terms of boiler houses of all capacities), 304, 305 (in terms of security zones of heating networks (main, intra-block), 320, 386, 407-1, 407-2, 408, 409 (parts eight, nine, ten and eleven), 418 (part 1-1), 505, 633, 634, 637 (частями четырнадцатой и пятнадцатой) of this Code, committed on the territory of towns of district significance, settlements, villages, rural districts.
4. The local executive body of a region, a city of national importance and a capital city shall consider cases on administrative offences envisaged by

Section 1741. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, three, six and eight) hereof.
5. Akims of oblasts, cities of national importance and the capital may consider cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties for administrative offences envisaged by

Section 1742. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, three, six and eight) hereof.
Footnote.

Section 1743. Original section/article: 729. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated December 30, 2021 № 99-VII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 112-VIII of 05.01.2024 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force on 01.10.2024); dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2024 № 91-VIII (effective six months after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1744. Original section/article: 730. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of education
1. The competent authority in the field of education shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 84, 409 (parts two, three, four, 4-1, 4-2, five, six, seven, 7-1, 7-3, 7-4, 7-5, 7-6, 7-7 and 7-9), 464 hereof.
2. The head of the authorized body in the field of education and his (her) deputies, the heads of territorial bodies of the authorized body in the field of education and their deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1745. Original section/article: 730. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2019 № 294-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 112-VIII of 05.07.2024 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 112-VIII of 05.07.2024 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1746. Original section/article: 730-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body for protection of children's rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The competent authority for the protection of children’s rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall examine cases concerning administrative offences under Articles 84, 127-3, 129, 135, 135-1, 409 (part 7-2) and 668-2 of this Code.
2. The head of the competent authority for the protection of children’s rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, his or her deputies and authorised officials are empowered to hear cases concerning administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. The law is supplemented with

Section 1747. Original section/article: 730-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 112-VIII of 05.07.2024 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1748. Original section/article: 730-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Competent authority in the field of science and higher education
1. The competent authority in the field of science and higher education shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by Articles 409 (parts four, 4-1, 4-2, six and seven), 464 hereof.
2. The head of the competent authority in the field of science and higher education and his/her deputies shall be entitled to consider cases on administrative offences and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented with

Section 1749. Original section/article: 730-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in compliance with Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1750. Original section/article: 731. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of tourist activity
1. The authorized authority in the field of tourist activity shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 187, 230 (part two) (in terms of infractions committed by tour operators and travel agents), 464 of this Code. 
2. The head of the authorized body in the field of tourist activity and his (her) deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1751. Original section/article: 731. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1752. Original section/article: 731-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority in the field of archival affairs and management documentation support
1. The authorized authority, the authority in the field of archival affairs and management documentation support, shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1753. Original section/article: 509. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
2. The head of the authorized authority in the field of archival affairs and documentation management support and his deputies shall have the right to consider cases on administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1754. Original section/article: 731-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1755. Original section/article: 731-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority in the field of language development
1. The authorized body in the field of gambling business considers cases on administrative offenses provided for in Articles 444 (parts three, four and five), 445, 445-1, 455 (part 1-1) and 464 of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized authority in the field of language development and his deputies shall have the right to consider cases on administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1756. Original section/article: 731-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1757. Original section/article: 732. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the scope of gambling industry
1. The authorized authority in the field of gambling business shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1758. Original section/article: 464. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized body in the scope of gambling industry and his (her) deputies shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions.
Footnote.

Section 1759. Original section/article: 732. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1760. Original section/article: 732-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized authority in the field of physical culture and sports
1. The authorized authority in the field of physical culture and sports shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1761. Original section/article: 409. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part twelve) of this Code.
2. The head of the authorized authority in the field of physical culture and sports or the person performing his duties shall have the right to consider cases on administrative infractions and impose administrative sanctions.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1762. Original section/article: 732-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.12.2019 № 280-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1763. Original section/article: 733. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of regulation of trade activity
1. The competent authority in the field of regulation of trade activity shall hear cases on administrative offences envisaged by 193 (parts four and five), 201, 204-2, 204-3, 204-4, 464 hereof.
2. The head of the authorized body in the field of regulation of trading activities, his deputies, heads of territorial divisions of the authorized body in the field of regulation of trading activities and their deputies have the right to consider cases of administrative offenses and impose administrative penalties.
Footnote.

Section 1764. Original section/article: 733. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced from 31.12.2025); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1765. Original section/article: 734. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of production of biofuel
Footnote.

Section 1766. Original section/article: 734. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1767. Original section/article: 735. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Authorized body in the field of turnover of biofuel
1. The authorized authority in the field of biofuel turnover shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided by

Section 1768. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts four and five) of this Code.
2. The following persons shall have the right to consider the cases on administrative infractions and impose the administrative sanctions:
1) the head of the authorized body in the field of turnover of biofuel and his (her) deputies;
2) the heads of territorial bodies of the authorized body in the field of turnover of biofuel and his (her) deputies.
Footnote.

Section 1769. Original section/article: 14. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 1770. Original section/article: 735-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
State bodies carrying out management in a particular industry or area of public administration in which self-regulation has been introduced
1. State bodies carrying out management in a particular industry or area of public administration in which self-regulation has been introduced, shall consider cases on administrative infractions provided for by

Section 1771. Original section/article: 465-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The following shall be eligible to consider cases on administrative infractions and to impose administrative sanctions:
1) heads of state bodies carrying out managment in a particular industry or area of public administration in which self-regulation has been introduced, and their deputies;
2) heads of territorial bodies of state bodies carrying out managment in a particular industry or area of public administration in which self-regulation has been introduced, and their deputies.
Footnote. Chapter 36 was supplemented with

Section 1772. Original section/article: 735-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1773. Original section/article: 4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS PROCEEDING
Chapter 37. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1774. Original section/article: 736. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Legislation determining the procedure for the administrative infractions proceeding
1. The procedure for the administrative infractions proceeding shall be determined by this Code.
2. The procedure for imposition of administrative sanctions by a court in the course of considering the criminal or civil case shall be determined by the provisions of this Code and the Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan respectively.

Section 1775. Original section/article: 737. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The tasks of the administrative infractions proceeding
The tasks of the administrative infractions proceeding are:
1) timely, comprehensive, full and objective clarification of the circumstances of each case, its solution in accordance with this Code;
2) ensuring of exercising the rights and obligations of the participants of proceeding;
3) clarification of the reasons and conditions promoting commission of administrative infractions;
4) ensuring performance of the resolution on the case of administrative offense, instructions about need of payment of a penalty.
Footnote.

Section 1776. Original section/article: 737. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1777. Original section/article: 737-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Form of proceedings in cases of administrative infractions
Proceedings in cases on administrative infractions shall be carried out in paper and (or) electronic forms using the Unified Register of Administrative Proceedings.
The procedure for maintaining the Unified Register of Administrative Proceedings shall be determined by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1778. Original section/article: 737-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1779. Original section/article: 737-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedural documents drawn up in electronic form 
Procedural documents drawn up in electronic form shall be certified by the electronic digital signature of the judge, an official of the authorized authority and shall be submitted to the participants in the proceedings by sending them to the postal or e-mail address indicated by them or in other ways provided by the procedure for maintaining the Unified Register of Administrative Proceedings.
Along with the submission of procedural documents in electronic form, it shall be allowed to submit them to the participants in the proceedings on paper.
Footnote. Chapter 36 is supplemented by

Section 1780. Original section/article: 737-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1781. Original section/article: 738. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Language of proceeding
1. The administrative infractions proceeding in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be conducted in the state language, and when necessary, the Russian or other languages shall be used in proceeding on equal terms with the state language.
2. In case of necessity to change the language of proceeding, the judge, bodies (civil servants) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall issue the reasoned decree on change of the language of the administrative infraction proceeding.
3. To the persons participating in a case that do not or are not proficient in language in which the proceeding on a case is conducted, the right to make statements, to give explanations and testimony, to present petitions, to make complaints, to familiarize with case materials, to appear in court upon its consideration in native language or another language that they know, to use the services of an interpreter shall be explained and ensured in the manner established by this Code.
4. Translation of case materials that are required to the persons participating in the administrative infractions proceeding by operation of law to the language of the proceeding expressed in another language shall be ensured without payment.
5. Procedural documents subjected to delivery to an offender and injured party shall be translated to their native language or to the language that they can speak.
6. The cost of translation and services of an interpreter shall be paid on account of the state budget.

Section 1782. Original section/article: 739. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Calculation of terms
1. The terms used upon the administrative infractions proceeding shall be calculated in hours, days, months and years.
2. Upon calculation of terms, the hour or days from which the term starts to run shall not be taken into calculation. This rule shall not relate to calculation of terms upon detention.
3. When calculating the term, it shall include non-working hours, except for cases when the term shall be calculated in days.
When calculating the term of administrative arrest, it includes non-working hours.
4. Upon calculation of terms in days, the term shall be calculated after zero hours of the first days and shall expire in twenty four hours of the last days of the term.
5. Upon calculation of term in months or years, the term shall expire in the relevant number of the last month, and if this month does not have the relevant number, the term shall be terminated on the last date of this month. If termination of the term falls within non-working (day-off, public holiday) day, the last date of the term shall be considered as the first business day next to it, except for the cases of calculating the term upon administrative detention.
Footnote.

Section 1783. Original section/article: 739. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1784. Original section/article: 740. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Petitions
1. The persons participating in the administrative infraction proceeding shall have the right to file petitions subjected to compulsory consideration by a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes this case.
2. A petition is filed in writing or in electronic form, certified by the digital signature, and is subject to immediate consideration. In cases when immediate consideration of the petition is impossible, the decision on him has to be made no later than three days from the moment of the statement.
3. The decision to satisfy the petition or to refuse it in whole or in part shall be made in the form of a ruling, which shall be communicated to the person who filed the petition, excluding petitions for postponement and extension of the court's consideration of the case.
Footnote.

Section 1785. Original section/article: 740. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1786. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The circumstances excluding the administrative infraction proceeding
1. Administrative infractions proceeding may not be initiated, and the initiated shall be subject to termination inexistence at least of one of the following circumstances:
1) absence of occurrence of administrative infraction;
2) absence of components of administrative infraction;
3) repeal of the law or its separate provisions establishing administrative liability;
4) if the law or its separate provisions establishing administrative responsibility, or other regulatory legal act subject to application in this case of an administrative offense, on which the qualification of the act as an administrative offense depends, are recognized by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan as unconstitutional;
5) expiration of terms of limitation for bringing to administrative liability;
6) presence of a judge's or body's (official's) decision on imposition of an administrative penalty, a document confirming the execution (payment) of an administrative fine in the order established by Articles 811 and 897 hereof on the same fact in respect of a person brought to administrative responsibility, or an unrevoked decision to terminate a case on an administrative offence, as well as the existence of a decision to recognise a person as a suspect on the same fact;
7) death of an individual, liquidation of a legal entity in respect of which the proceeding on case is conducted;
8) in case of any technical errors in the software confirmed by an authorized authority:
exercising management in the field of maintenance of return of duties and other mandatory payments to the budget, which resulted in failure of a taxpayer to perform tax obligation on presentation of tax forms in electronic format within the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
in the field of circulation of oil products which resulted in failure to perform obligations on presentation of declarations on circulation of separate types of oil products, as well as accompanying notes in electronic form within the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
in the field of production and circulation of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products which resulted in failure to perform of obligation on presentation of declaration on production and circulation of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products, as well as accompanying notes on ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products in electronic form within the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
in the field of production and circulation of tobacco products which resulted in failure to perform obligations on presentation of declarations on excess and (or) circulation of tobacco products, details required for monitoring, as well accompanying notes for tobacco products in electronic forms within the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
in the field of circulation of biofuel which resulted in failure to perform obligations on presentation of declarations on circulation of biofuel, as well as accompanying notes in electronic form within the term established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8-1) in case of any errors in operation of information system on declaration in electronic form confirmed by an authorized authority in the field of customs affairs which resulted in failure to perform within the terms and in accordance with the procedures established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan of obligations on performance of customs formalities related to customs declaring procedure in electronic form;
9) other cases provided for by the tax and customs legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
10) excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
11) the person that is brought to administrative liability is recognized as injured party on a criminal case in the manner established by the Law on the crime linked with human beings traffic.
12) excluded by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
13) in case of simplified registration of a road traffic accident;
14) due to the termination of the state of emergency;
15) in the absence of the prosecutor's approval of the decision to initiate proceedings on an administrative offence against investors included in the investor register in the manner prescribed by

Section 1787. Original section/article: 759. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof.
2. Proceeding of administrative offense stops on the bases provided by subparagraphs 1) and 2) of part one of the present article as at validity of lack of an event of administrative offense or structure of administrative offense, and at absence of proof of their existence if all opportunities for collecting additional proofs are exhausted and also in cases when infliction of harm is lawful or act is made under circumstances which according to chapter 5 of the present Code exclude administrative responsibility.
3. Pursuant to

Section 1788. Original section/article: 809. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof, the body (official) in whose proceedings a case is pending, having discovered circumstances precluding the proceedings on a case on an administrative offence, shall be obliged to issue at any stage of the proceedings a ruling to terminate the case regardless of the jurisdiction of the case.
On termination and grounds for termination of proceedings a person in respect of whom a case on an administrative offence has been instituted shall be notified in the manner prescribed by

Section 1789. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 18.07.2024 № 127-VIII (shall come into force on 01.01.2024); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1790. Original section/article: 742. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances that permitting not to bring to administrative liability
The proceeding on the case of administrative offense may be terminated in the manner provided by this Code, in the case provided by

Section 1791. Original section/article: 64-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as in the case of transfer of material to the prosecutor to the pre-trial agency due to the presence of elements of criminally punishable act, provided by the criminal legislation.
Footnote.

Section 1792. Original section/article: 742. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1793. Original section/article: 743. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Notifications (notices)
1. Participants of production on cases of administrative offenses are informed on time and the place of consideration of the case or commission of separate procedural actions and subpoenaed, body (to the official) notices (notices).
Time and the place of consideration of the case can be specified in the protocol on administrative offense also.
2. The notification (notice) shall be directed by registered letter with notification on its delivery by a telephoned message or telegram, text message to the subscriber's number of cellular communications or by electronic mail or with use of other means of communications ensuring registration of notice or summon.
3. If there is no one residing at the stated address in fact, the notice or summon may be directed to the legal address or at the place of work. The notification (notice) addressed to a legal entity shall be directed at the registered office.
4. Notification (notice) shall be recognized properly delivered in the following cases:
1) existence of signature of the person brought to administrative liability in the relevant section of administrative infraction report;
2) notice of a person by registered letter, telegram that shall be delivered to him (her) in person or to someone of adult family members residing jointly with him (her) against receipt on delivery confirmation subjected to return. The notice being addressed to a legal entity shall be delivered to the head or employee of the legal entity that shall sign for receipt of the notice on delivery confirmation specifying own last name, initials and position;
3) direction of a text message on the subscriber’s number of cellular communications or by electronic mail that the informed person stated during proceeding on the case and confirmed by own signature;
4) direction of notification (notice) by the state revenues bodies by electronic methods to the persons registered as electronic tax payers in the manner established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) the sending of notifications by the regional offices of the competent authority for state statistics to respondents by electronic means, to an email address or mobile phone number obtained by the competent authority for state statistics from the information resources of public authorities or from telecommunications operators.
4-1. The instruction about need of payment of a penalty is recognized properly delivered in cases:
1) the directions the registered mail which is handed to the owner (owner) of the vehicle personally or to someone from the full age family members who are in common living with him on receipt on the assurance of receipt which is subject to return to the sender. The instruction about need of payment of a penalty sent to the legal entity is handed to the head or the employee of legal entity who undersigns for obtaining the instruction on the assurance of receipt with the indication of the of a surname, initials and positions;
2) refusal of the addressee to accept the instruction about need of payment of a penalty. At the same time the person bringing him does the corresponding mark in the assurance of receipt which together with the instruction comes back to the sender;
3) direct delivery of the instruction about need of payment of a penalty to the owner (owner) of the vehicle personally or to someone from the full age family members who are in common living with him on receipt the official;
4) sending a text message to the cellular subscriber number specified by the owner (owner) of the vehicle on the web portal of "electronic government" and (or) the information service of the authorized body in the field of legal statistics and special accounting, as well as to the user's account on the web portal of "electronic government" with sending a short text message to a cellular subscriber number registered on the e-government web portal to receive notifications about the instructions issued to him about the need to pay a fine.
5. The person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is carried out, shall confirm by signature the familiarization with that the address of the place of residence (location), work place, subscriber’s number of cellular communications, electronic address specified by him (her) are trustworthy, and the notification (notice) directed to the stated contacts will be considered proper and sufficient.
5-1. The person against whom proceedings are initiated and also to other participants of proceeding is handed the coupon about consent to obtaining the notice of an appearance in court through the text message on a subscriber number of cellular communication, expenses on which are paid at the expense of them.
Detachable part of the coupon is handed together with the copy of the protocol on administrative offense.
6. Upon refusal of an addressee to accept a notification (notice), the person carrying or delivering it shall make the relevant mark on the notification (notice) that will return to the court, body (to civil servant).
7. Refusal of an addressee from acceptance of a notification (notice) is not a bar of consideration of the case or commission of separate procedural actions.
Footnote.

Section 1794. Original section/article: 743. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 38. PARTICIPANTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS
PROCEEDING, THEIR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS

Section 1795. Original section/article: 744. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
The person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted
1. A person, in respect of whom proceedings on a case on an administrative offence are being conducted, shall have the right to familiarise themselves with the protocol and other materials of the case, to give explanations, to make comments on the content and design of the protocol, to present evidence, to make petitions, including on the immediate consideration of the case and the immediate entry of a decision on a case on an administrative offence into legal force, and objections, receive legal assistance from defence counsel, speak in his or her native language or a language he or she speaks, and use the services of an interpreter free of charge if he or she does not speak the language in which the proceedings are conducted; file a complaint on the application of measures to secure proceedings on the case, on the violation of the law in drawing up a protocol on an administrative offence in case of indication of information that does not correspond to the actual data and circumstances, on the order to pay a fine and the decision on the case; make extracts and copies from the documents available in the case, as well as exercise other procedural rights granted to them by this Code.
2. A case on an administrative offence shall be heard with the participation of the person in respect of whom the proceedings on the case of an administrative offence are conducted. Participation of a person in respect of whom proceedings on a case are being conducted, in court or in consideration of a case by a body (official) authorized to consider cases on administrative offences may be effected through the use of scientific and technical means. In the absence of the specified person the case may be heard only in cases if the administrative offence is fixed by certified special control and measuring technical means and devices operating in automatic mode, or when there is evidence of his/her proper notification of the venue and time of hearing of the case and if there is no petition from him/her to postpone the hearing of the case.
3. When hearing a case on an administrative offence committed by a person under the age of eighteen, or the commission of which entails an administrative penalty in the form of administrative detention or community service, as well as administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person or deprivation of a special right ( excluding the right to drive vehicles) granted to a person, the presence of a person brought to administrative responsibility is mandatory.
4. In case of avoidance of the persons mentioned in a part three of this Article from appearance on calling of a judge, body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction, the proceeding of which includes this case on administrative infraction, this person may be subjected to bringing.
Ruling of court on bringing shall be executed by an officer of justice or internal affairs body; ruling of body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction – by the internal affairs body (police).
5. The minor person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted may be removed for a time of consideration of the circumstances of the case the discussion of which may have a negative impact on him (her).
Footnote.

Section 1796. Original section/article: 744. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1797. Original section/article: 745. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Injured party
1. The injured party is an individual or legal entity to which the administrative infraction caused physical, property or moral damage.
2. Complainant shall have a right to familiarize with all materials of a case, give explanations, tender evidence, present petitions, including on immediate proceeding and immediate enforcement of judgement on case of administrative offense, and resignation, have a representative, appeal against a protocol on administrative offense and judgement on case of administrative offense, and make use of other procedural rights provided by this Code.
3. Case on administrative offense shall be considered with participation of a complainant. Participation of a complainant in the court may be performed using technological means. In his/her absence, the case may be only considered in cases where there are details on proper notification on place and time for proceeding and when he/she has not sent petition on adjournment of case.
4. The injured party may be interrogated as a witness in the manner provided by Article754 of this Code. If the injured party is the legal entity, its representative may be interrogated as a witness.
Footnote.

Section 1798. Original section/article: 745. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1799. Original section/article: 746. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Legal representatives of an individual
1. Protection of rights and legal interests of an individual in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is carried out, or of injured party that are minors or deprived of a possibility to exercise own rights on an individual basis due to physical or mental state, shall be carried out by their legal representatives.
2. Legal representatives of an individual shall be recognized as parents, adopters, trustees, guardians and other persons in care or maintenance of whom he (she) is.
3. The kinship or the relevant powers of the persons that are legal representatives of an individual shall be certified by the documents provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Legal representative of an individual in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted shall be admitted to participate in the case from the date of administrative detention of the person bringing to administrative liability, or drawing up of protocol on administrative infraction.
5. Legal representatives of an individual in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, and of injured party, shall have the right and bear the obligations provided by this Code in respect of the persons represented by them.
6. Upon consideration of the case on administrative infraction committed by the person under eighteen years, the participation of his (her) legal representatives is mandatory. In case of avoidance from appearance, the legal representative of a minor may be subjected to bringing carried out by the internal affairs body (police).

Section 1800. Original section/article: 747. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representatives of the individual entrepreneur, legal entity
Footnote.

Section 1801. Original section/article: 747. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
heading in edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).
1. Protection of rights and legal interests of a legal entity in respect of which the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted or that is injured party shall be carried out by its representatives.
2. Legal representative of a legal entity is the head of the executive body of legal entity that acts in behalf of the legal entity. The powers of a legal representative of legal entity shall be confirmed by the documents certifying his (her) official position.
The other persons representing the interests of a legal entity are the representatives under a commission, the powers of which are determined by a power of attorney issued in behalf of the legal entity by the executive body of legal entity and signed by the head of the executive body.
3. The representatives of a legal entity in respect of which the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, and of injured party shall have the rights and bear obligations provided by this Code in respect of the persons represented by them.
4. The case on administrative infraction shall be considered with participation of a representative of legal entity in respect of which the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted. In the absence of the mentioned person, the case may be considered only in the cases when there is data on his (her) appropriate notice about place and time for consideration of the case, if there is no petition from him (her) on postponement of consideration of the case.
5. Upon consideration of the case on administrative infraction the commission of which entails administrative sanction in the form of confiscation of the subject that is the tool or subject for commission of administrative infraction, or confiscation of incomes (dividends), money and securities received due to commission of the administrative infraction, the presence of a representative of legal entity brought to administrative liability is compulsory.
6. In case of evasion of the representative of legal entity from an appearance on a call of the judge, body (official) in which production there is a business the specified person can be subjected to the drive by law-enforcement bodies (police), anti-corruption service and service of economic investigations on the basis of definition of the judge, body (official) in which production there is a business.
7. Representatives of the individual entrepreneur have the same procedural laws and duties, as representatives of legal entity in the limits provided by the present Code.
Footnote.

Section 1802. Original section/article: 747. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 4/6/2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1803. Original section/article: 748. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Defence attorney
1. Defence attorney is a person carrying out protection of rights and interests of a person brought to administrative liability in the manner established by the Law, and rendering legal assistance to him (her).
2. Lawyers, legal consultants shall participate as defenders. Spouses, close relatives or lawful representatives of a person brought to administrative responsibility shall be allowed as defenders along with lawyers, legal consultants. Foreign lawyers shall be permitted to participate in a case as defence counsel if it is envisaged by an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the relevant state on a reciprocal basis, in the procedure determined by legislation.
3. The defender is allowed to participation in business from the moment of administrative detention of the person brought to administrative responsibility, initiations of proceedings about administrative offense and also at any stage of proceeding of administrative offense.
4. One and the same person may not be defence attorney of two participants of the administrative infractions proceeding, if the interests of one of them conflict with the interests of the other.
5. A lawyer and a legal consultant may not refuse to participate as a defender in a case on an administrative offence, save for cases prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. A lawyer and a legal consultant may not refuse to participate as a defender in a case on an administrative offence, save for cases prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1804. Original section/article: 748. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1805. Original section/article: 749. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compulsory participation of defence attorney
1. Participation of defence attorney in the administrative infraction proceeding shall be compulsory in the cases if:
1) the person brought to administrative liability filed a petition about this;
2) the person brought to administrative liability may not exercise own right to protection due to physical or mental deficiency on an individual basis;
3) the person brought to administrative liability may not speak the language in which the proceeding is conducted;
4) the person brought to administrative liability is a minor person.
2. If in existence of the circumstances provided by a part one of this Article, the defence attorney is not engaged by the person himself (herself) brought to administrative liability, his (her) legal representatives, as well as other persons under his (her) commission, the judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall be obliged to ensure participation of defence attorney at the relevant stage of proceeding, on which they shall issue a decree. The decree shall be directed to the bar association of oblast, city of republican significance, the capital or its structural subdivisions for execution, and shall be subject to execution within the term no more than twenty four hours from the date of its receipt.

Section 1806. Original section/article: 750. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Engagement, assignment, substitution of defence attorney, payment for his (her) labour
1. Defence attorney shall be engaged by the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, by his (her) representatives, as well as other persons under a commission or with consent of the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted. The person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, shall have the right to engage several defence attorneys for defence.
2. Upon request of the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the participation of a defence attorney shall be ensured by a judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions.
3. In the cases when participation of elected or assigned defence attorney is impossible within twenty four hours, the judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall have the right to offer engagement of other defence attorney to the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted or to take measures for assignment of defence attorney through the bar association or its structural subdivisions. The judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall not have the right to recommend engagement of a special person as defence attorney to the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted.
4. In case of administrative detention, if the appearance of a defence attorney being elected by the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted is impossible within three hours, the judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall offer to engage the other defence attorney to the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, and in case of refusal, shall take measures for assignment of defence attorney through the bar association or its structural subdivisions.
5. A lawyer, legal consultant shall be remunerated pursuant to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. A judge, body (official), empowered to hear cases on administrative offences, if there are grounds to do so, shall be obliged to exempt a person, in respect of whom proceedings on a case on an administrative offence are being conducted, from payment for legal assistance. In this case payment for labour shall be made at the expense of budgetary funds.
6. Expenses on payment for the labour of advocates, legal advisers shall be made at the expense of budgetary funds and in the case specified in part two of

Section 1807. Original section/article: 749. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof, when the advocate, legal adviser participated in the proceedings in a case being conducted in respect of an individual by assignment.
7. An advocate shall enter a case on an administrative offence as a defender upon presentation of an advocate's certificate and a written notification of defence (representation), a legal consultant - upon presentation of a certificate or an extract from the register and a written consent of the person in respect of whom a case on an administrative offence has been instituted. It shall be prohibited to request other documents confirming the powers of an advocate, legal consultant to conduct a particular case. Other persons referred to in part two of

Section 1808. Original section/article: 748. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof shall file documents confirming their right to participate in the case as defence counsel (marriage certificate, as well as documents indicated in part three of

Section 1809. Original section/article: 750. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 177-VI dated 05.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1810. Original section/article: 751. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Refusal from defence attorney
1. The person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted shall have the right to refuse from defence attorney at any time of the proceeding that means his (her) intention to exercise own protection on an individual basis. Refusal from defence attorney shall not be admitted on the grounds of absence of the funds for payment of legal assistance. Refusal shall be executed in written form.
2. Refusal from defence attorney shall not deprive the right of the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted to file petition in the following on admission of a defence attorney to participate in a case. Intervention of a defence attorney shall not entail review of the actions committed by this time in the course of consideration of the case on administrative infraction.

Section 1811. Original section/article: 752. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Powers of defence attorney
1. Defence attorney shall have the right to: familiarize with all case materials; participate in consideration of a case; represent evidences; file petitions and objections; put questions to the persons interrogated in the process of consideration of a case upon authorization of a judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider the case; appeal the application of measures to ensure proceeding on a case; use the other rights provided to him (her) by the Law.
2. Defence attorney shall not have the right to: commit any actions against the interests of a defendant and impede exercise of the rights belonging to him (her); recognize his (her) belonging administrative infraction and guilt in its commission in spite of position of a defendant, to apply on reconciliation of a defendant with injured party; withdraw complaints and petitions filed by a defendant; disclose the details that became known to him (her) due to applying for legal assistance and its implementation.

Section 1812. Original section/article: 753. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representative of injured party
1. Representatives of the victim may be persons entitled by virtue of law to represent in the proceedings on a case on an administrative offence the legitimate interests of the victim, as well as persons who have the status of a legal consultant.
1-1. For protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the victims who are minors or on the physical or mental state deprived of an opportunity independently to protect the rights and legitimate interests, their lawful representatives and representatives are involved in obligatory participation in process.
2. The representatives of an injured party shall have the same procedural rights as individuals and legal entities represented by them within the ambit provided by this Code.
3. The representatives shall not have the right to commit any actions contrary to the interests of the represented person.
4. Personal participation of an injured party in a case shall not deprive his (her) right to have a representative on this case.
Footnote.

Section 1813. Original section/article: 753. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1814. Original section/article: 754. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Witness
1. Any person who may know the circumstances having significance for a case may be called as a witness on a case on administrative infraction, unless otherwise provided by the Law.
2. The witness shall have the right to: refuse from testimony against himself (herself), husband (wife) or close relatives, make statements and remarks regarding the correctness of entering own evidences in the relevant protocol; act in native language upon consideration of a case; enjoy free assistance of an interpreter.
3. The witness shall be obliged to appear on call of a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction, to report faithfully about all that is known to him (her) on a case and answer to raised questions, to certify the correctness of entered evidences by his (her) signature in the relevant protocol.
4. The witness shall be informed on administrative liability for avoidance or refusal from testimony, giving of knowingly false testimony to the body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions, and on criminal liability for commission of these actions in court.
5. In case of avoidance of a witness from appearance on call of a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction, he (she) may be subjected to bringing by the internal affairs body (police) on the basis of the ruling of court, body (civil servant).
6. Upon interrogation of a minor witness under fourteen years, the presence of a pedagogue or psychologist is compulsory. In case of necessity, the interrogation shall be conducted in the presence of a legal representative of such witness.

Section 1815. Original section/article: 755. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Attesting witness
1. In cases provided by this Code, the adult person that is impartial in outcome of a case, being able to perceive fully and correctly the actions happening in his (her) presence shall be brought as attesting witness.
2. Participation of an attesting witness in the administrative infraction proceeding shall be expressed in protocols of personal inspection, search of a transport vehicle, things, withdrawal of documents and things being in possession of an individual, inspection of territories, premises and property belonged to a legal entity, withdrawal of documents and property belonging to the legal entity.
3. The attesting witness shall be obliged to appear on call of a civil servant, the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction, to take participation in a proceeding on this case and certify the fact of carrying out the actions performed with his (her) presence, their content and results by his (her) signature in the relevant protocol.
4. The attesting witness shall have the right to make statements and remarks regarding the performed action subjected to entering in protocol.
5. In case of necessity, the attesting witness may be interrogated as a witness in the manner provided by

Section 1816. Original section/article: 756. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Specialist
1. Any adult person that is impartial in outcome of a case having special knowledge and skills required for rendering assistance in collection, research and assessment of evidences, as well as in applying special means may be assigned as a specialist for participation in the administrative infraction proceeding.
2. The specialist shall have the right to: know the aim of his (her) call; refuse from participation in a proceeding on case, if he (she) does not possess the relevant special knowledge and skills; familiarize with case materials related to the procedural actions committed with his (her) participation; put questions to the participants of procedural actions upon authorization of a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction; conduct research within the procedural actions, with the exception of comparative research, case materials with the reflection of its course and results in the protocol or official document that is a part of the protocol of procedural actions; familiarize with the protocol of procedural actions in which he (she) took participation, and make statements and remarks subjected to entering in the protocol with regard to fullness and correctness of recording the course and results of the actions performed with his (her) participation.
3. The specialist shall be obliged to: appear on call of a judge, body (civil servant) carrying out the administrative infraction proceeding; participate in a procedural action using special knowledge, skills and scientific technical means; give explanations regarding the actions committed by him (her); certify the fact of commission of mentioned actions, their content and results by his (her) signature.

Section 1817. Original section/article: 757. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Expert
1. The person that is impartial in outcome of a case, having special scientific knowledge may be called as an expert. Performance of forensic examination may be instructed to:
1) employees of the bodies of forensic examination;
2) to the natural persons who are engaged in judicial and expert activity on the basis of the license;
3) the other persons in accordance with requirements of the Law in exceptional manner.
2. The expert shall have the right to: familiarize with case materials related to the subject of examination; file petitions on representing additional materials required for giving an opinion, to participate in a proceeding of procedural actions upon authorization of the body (civil servant), the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction, and put questions to the persons participating in them related to the subject of examination; familiarize with a protocol of procedural actions in which he (she) took participation, and make remarks subjected to entering in the protocols with regard fullness and correctness of recording his (her) actions and evidences; in coordination with a judge, body (civil servant) that assigned the forensic examination, to give an opinion within the competence on the circumstances having a meaning for the case detected in the course of judicial expert research, that are beyond the scope of the issues contained in a ruling on assignment of the forensic examination; represent the opinion and give evidences in native language or the language that he (she) can speak; enjoy free assistance of an interpreter; appeal decisions and actions of a court and other persons participating in the proceeding on case derogating from his (her) rights upon performance of the examination; receive compensation of the costs incurred upon performance of the examination, and remuneration for the performed work, if performance of forensic examination is not included into his (her) scope of official duties.
3. The expert shall not have the right to: hold negotiations with participations of the administrative infraction proceeding on the issues linked with performance of the examination, without knowledge of the body carrying out proceeding on a case; collect materials for investigation on an individual basis; conduct investigations that may entail full or partial destruction of the objects or change of their appearance or main properties, if there is no special permit of the body that assigned the examination.
4. The expert shall be obliged to: appear on call of a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction; conduct thorough, full and objective investigation of the objects represented to him (her), give reasonable written conclusion on the issues set before him (her); refuse from giving an opinion and draw up substantiated written report on impossibility to give the opinion and direct it to the body (civil servant( that assigned the forensic examination, in the cases provided by a part thirteen of

Section 1818. Original section/article: 772. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code; give evidences on the issues linked with conducted investigation and given opinion; ensure preservation of the investigated objects; not to disclose the details on circumstances of the case and other details that became known to him (her) due to performance of the examination.
5. The expert bears the responsibility provided by the present Code for making obviously false conclusion.
6. The expert who is the employee of body of judicial examination is considered by the nature of the activity acquainted with his rights and duties and warned about the responsibility for making obviously false conclusion in court provided by the present Code.
Footnote.

Section 1819. Original section/article: 757. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 10.02.2017 № 45-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1820. Original section/article: 758. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Interpreter
1. Any adult person that is impartial in outcome of a case that can speak languages (that understands the signs of dumb or deaf people), the knowledge of which are required for interpretation upon the administrative infraction proceeding.
2. The interpreter shall be assigned by a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infarction.
3. The interpreter shall have the right to: refuse from participation in a proceeding on case, if he (she) does not possess knowledge required for interpretation; put questions to the persons attending upon the process of interpretation for clarification of the interpretation; familiarize with a protocol of procedural actions in the proceeding of which he (she) took participation, and make remarks subjected to entering in the protocol in regard with fullness and correctness of recording of interpretation.
4. The interpreter shall be obliged to: appear on call of a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction, and to carry out the interpretation instructed to him (her) fully and precisely; certify correctness of interpretation by own signature in the relevant protocol.
5. The interpreter shall be warned on administrative liability for carrying out of knowingly false interpretation upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction by the body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions, and on criminal liability for commission of this act in court.
6. The rules of this Article shall apply to the person involved in participation in a case on administrative infraction that understands the signs of dumb or deaf people.

Section 1821. Original section/article: 759. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Prosecutor
1. The supreme supervision over the observance of legality in the process of proceedings on cases on administrative offences on behalf of the state, approval or refusal to approve decisions to initiate proceedings on administrative offences against investors included in the register of investors shall be exercised by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan both directly and through prosecutors subordinate to him/her.
In exercising his or her powers, the prosecutor shall be independent and subject only to the law.
2. For the purposes of exercising its powers under this Code, the prosecutor may: agree or refuse to agree on decisions to initiate proceedings on an administrative offence against investors included in the register of investors; to participate in proceedings on cases on administrative offences; to present evidence and participate in their study; to state to the court, body (official) considering the case, his/her opinion on the guilt of the person in respect of whom proceedings on a case on an administrative offence are being conducted, as well as on other issues arising in the process of hearing the case; to express to the court, body (official) hearing the case a proposal to apply the provisions of the law and impose an administrative penalty or exemption from it.
3. The prosecutor shall be obligatorily notified of the venue and time of hearing of a case on an administrative offence committed by a minor, as well as an offence entailing administrative arrest, administrative expulsion of a foreigner or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan. Such a case may be heard in his or her absence only in cases where there is evidence that the prosecutor has been notified in a timely manner of the venue and time of consideration of the case and where no request to postpone the hearing of the case has been received from him or her.
4. The decision to initiate a case on an administrative offence against investors included in the register of investors, with materials confirming the existence of grounds for initiating a case on an administrative offence, shall be sent to the prosecutor within one working day from the moment of finding the fact of committing an administrative offence.
Approval or refusal to approve by the prosecutor of the decision mentioned in this part shall be made using the information system of the unified register of administrative proceedings in compliance with the procedure established by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
5. Within three working days, the prosecutor shall approve or refuse to approve the decision to initiate proceedings on an administrative offence against investors included in the register of investors and return the decision to the person who made such decision.
If the prosecutor approves the decision to initiate proceedings on an administrative offence against investors included in the investor register, the person authorised to draw up a protocol on an administrative offence shall notify the investor thereof.
Should it be needed to request and study additional materials, the prosecutor shall agree on the decision to initiate administrative offence proceedings against investors included in the investor register or refuse to agree within ten working days.
The refusal to agree by the prosecutor of the decision to initiate proceedings on an administrative offence against investors included in the register of investors may be appealed to a higher prosecutor, who shall consider the complaint within five working days in the manner established by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1822. Original section/article: 759. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
- as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1823. Original section/article: 759-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Court clerk
1. The court clerk is the public servant who isn't interested on the case of administrative offense who keeps the protocol of court session of court and also provides audio-, video fixing of court session.
2. The court clerk is obliged:
1) to be in the hall of court session all the time, so far he needs to provide recording and not to leave a court session without the permission of the chairman;
2) it is full and correct to state in the protocol of action and judgment, the petition, objection, the indication, an explanation of all persons participating in a court session and also other circumstances which are subject to reflection in the minutes of court;
3) to make the protocol of court session;
4) not to disclose data on the circumstances which have become known in connection with his participation in the closed court session;
5) to submit to lawful orders of the chairman. 
3. The court clerk bears personal responsibility for completeness and correctness of the minutes of court.
4. In case of entering of the doubtful or untrue data into the protocol of court session the secretary bears the responsibility provided by the law.
Footnote. Chapter 38 is supplemented with

Section 1824. Original section/article: 759-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1825. Original section/article: 760. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Powers of a prosecutor on ensuring legality of the administrative infractions proceeding
1. By results of checks of production on cases of administrative offenses, assessment of legality of the resolution and other acts the prosecutor has the right:
1) to bring in court, body (official) a protest on the resolution on the case of administrative offense or the instruction about need of payment of a penalty;
2) give written instructions to the authorized civil servants and bodies (except for the court) on performance of additional inspection;
3) require conduct of inspection from the authorized bodies in the organizations controlled by them or subordinated to them;
4) terminate the administrative infraction proceeding in the cases established by the Law;
5) to stop performance of the resolution on an administrative penalty or instructions about need of payment of a penalty;
6) issue a decree on release of the person illegally subjected to administrative detention;
7) issue a decree or requirement on release from any measures of prohibitive or restrictive nature imposed by the civil servants of the state bodies due to fulfillment of own obligations in the cases of violation of rights and legal interests of individuals, legal entities and the state;
8) issue a decree on initiation of the administrative infraction proceeding.
2. The acts of a prosecutor stated in subparagraphs 6) and 7) of part one of this Article shall be subject to immediate execution. The civil servants that are guilty in delay of executing the mentioned acts of a prosecutor shall bear liability established by the Law.
Footnote.

Section 1826. Original section/article: 760. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1827. Original section/article: 761. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Liability for non-fulfillment of procedural obligations
1. Non-fulfillment of the procedural obligations provided by Articles 754, 756, 757, 758 of this Code by a witness, specialist, expert and interpreter shall entail administrative liability established in Articles 658, 659, 661 of this Code.
2. In case of commission of the actions specified in part one of the present article when considering the case about administrative offense, complaints, the appeal petition, the prosecutor's protest on the resolution on matter in protocols of consideration of the complaint, the appeal petition, the prosecutor's protest on the resolution on business the corresponding record is made.
Footnote.

Section 1828. Original section/article: 761. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1829. Original section/article: 762. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances excluding the possibility of participation in the administrative infraction proceeding
1. The persons that are employees of the state bodies carrying out supervision and control of compliance with the riles, the violation of which is the ground for initiation of this case, or if they previously acted as other participants of the proceeding on this case shall not be admitted to participate in the administrative infraction proceeding as defence attorney and representative.
2. The court clerk, the bailiff, the expert and the translator aren't allowed to participation in proceeding of administrative offense if: they consist in the related relations with the person brought to administrative responsibility, the victim, their representatives, the defender, the representative, the prosecutor, the judge, the official in whose production there is this case or they acted as other participants of production on this case earlier; their incompetence was found, and equally there are other bases to consider these persons directly or indirectly interested in this case.
3. Preceding participation of a person in the case as an expert is the circumstance that excludes his (her) instructing to perform the examination in cases when then it is assigned repeatedly second time after the examination performed with his (her) participation.
Footnote.

Section 1830. Original section/article: 762. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1831. Original section/article: 763. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Challenges of persons the participation of which in the proceeding on case is not admitted
1. In existence of the circumstances provided by

Section 1832. Original section/article: 762. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code excluding a possibility for participation of defence attorney, representative, prosecutor, expert and interpreter in the administrative infraction proceeding, the mentioned persons shall be subject to challenge.
2. The application on recusation or challenge shall be filed to a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction.
3. the application on recusation or challenge shall be considered within three days from the date of filing the application.
4. After consideration of the application on recusation or challenge, the judge, body (civil servant) shall issue a ruling on satisfying the application or on refusal from its satisfaction.

Section 1833. Original section/article: 764. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compensation of expenses to injured party, witness, expert, specialist, interpreter or attesting witness
1. Injured party, witness, expert, specialist, interpreter and attesting witness shall be compensated for expenses incurred by them due to appearance in court, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction in the manner established by the civil procedure legislation, including the cost of travelling of the mentioned persons from the place of residence or staying to the place of proceeding and return, and in cases when it is linked with staying at the other place – the cost of lease of a residential premise, as well as daily allowance.
2. The average earnings on the work place of the person called as injured party, witness, expert, specialist, interpreter and attesting witness shall be preserved in established manner for a time of their absence due to appearance in court, body (civil servant) the proceeding and consideration of which includes the case on administrative infraction.
3. Labour of an expert, specialist and interpreter shall be paid in the manner established by the legislation.
Chapter 39. EVIDENCES AND PROOF

Section 1834. Original section/article: 765. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Evidences
1. Evidences on the case on administrative infraction are legally received actual data on the basis of which, the judge or body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes the case on administrative infraction establishes existence or absence of the act containing all the signs of administrative infraction components, commission or non-commission of this act buy the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, guilt or guiltlessness of this person, as well as the other circumstances having significance for a proper solution of the case in the manner established by this Code.
2. Actual data mentioned in a part one of this Article, shall be established by: explanations of a person brought to administrative liability; testimony of an injured party, witnesses; opinions and testimony of an expert specialist; material evidences; other documents; protocols on administrative infraction and protocols of procedural actions provided by this Code.
Upon consideration of materials on administrative infractions, the data received with use of scientific technical means may be used as evidences.
3. Actual data shall be recognized inadmissible as the evidences, if they are received with violations of the requirements of this Code that affected or may affect a credibility of the received actual data by means of deprivation or restriction of the rights of the participants of proceeding guaranteed by the Law or violation of the other rules of process, as well as:
1) with use of force, threat, fraud, and equally the other illegal actions;
2) with use of wrong beliefs of a person participating in a process with regard of his (her) rights and obligations occurred due to non-clarification, incomplete or improper clarification of them;
3) due to conduct of a procedural action by a person that does not have the right to carry out the proceeding on this case;
4) due to participation of a person subjected to challenge in a procedural action;
5) with violation of the procedure for proceeding of a procedural action;
6) from unknown source;
7) with use of methods in the course of proving contradicting to modern scientific knowledge.
4. Inadmissibility of using actual data as evidences shall be established by a judge or body (civil servant) carrying out the administrative infraction proceeding at own initiative or upon petition of participants of the process.
5. The evidences received with breach of the Law shall be recognized invalid and may not be taken as basis of case decision, as well as may not be used upon proving any circumstance on the case, with the exception of the fact of the relevant violations and guilt of the persons that committed them.

Section 1835. Original section/article: 766. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances subjected to proving on the case on administrative infraction
It shall be subject to proving on the case on administrative infraction as follows:
1) the fact and signs of administrative infraction components provided by this Code;
2) the person that committed wrongful act (action or omission) for which the administrative liability is provided by this Code;
3) guilt of an individual in commission of administrative infraction;
4) circumstances mitigating or aggravating administrative liability;
5) character and size of damage inflicted by administrative infraction;
6) circumstances entailing release from administrative liability;
7) reasons and conditions promoting commission of administrative infraction, as well as the other circumstances having significance for a proper solution of the case.

Section 1836. Original section/article: 767. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Explanations of a person in respect of which the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the testimony of an injured party and witness
1. Explanations of the person concerning whom proceeding is conducted testimonies of the victim and the witness represent the data concerning business reported by specified persons in an oral or written form.
In need of the course of proceeding of administrative offense scientific and technical means in the video conferencing mode can be used.
The procedure for such use of videoconferencing facilities shall be established by the body responsible for organisational and material-technical support of the activity of courts, or by the body (official) authorised to hear cases on administrative offences, with due regard to the requirements of this Code.
2. The explanations of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted shall be reflected in a protocol on administrative infraction or on applying the measures on ensuring the proceeding on case, and when necessary – shall be drawn up as polling protocol and attached to the case.
3. The explanations of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the testimony of witnesses shall be incorporated in protocol on administrative infraction only after its full filling and clarification of rights and obligations provided by this Code to the mentioned persons.
4. In case of failure to comply with the requirements provided by a part three of this Article, the explanations of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding, the testimony of a witness shall not be considered as having the force of evidences and may not be recognized as evidences.
Footnote.

Section 1837. Original section/article: 767. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1838. Original section/article: 768. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Representation of evidences
1. The evidences may be represented by parties and other participants of administrative proceeding.
2. If the represented evidences are insufficient, the court or body considering a case may suggest to represent additional evidences to participants of a process or to collect them at own initiative.

Section 1839. Original section/article: 769. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Grounds for release from evidence
1. The circumstances recognized as commonly known by a court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider administrative infraction, shall not be subject to proving.
2. Ecircumstances established by the final court decision on a civil, administrative cases or the court decree on another case on administrative infraction entered into force shall not be subject to proving upon consideration of the other cases on administrative infractions in which the same persons take participation.
3. The following circumstances shall be considered as established without evidences, unless the contrary is established within the due process of law:
1) correctness of the methods for investigation being generally accepted in modern science, technology, arts, craft;
2) knowledge of the law by a person;
3) knowledge of own official and professional obligations by a person;
4) absence of special training or education of a person that did not represent a document for their certification and that did not state the educational organization or another institution where he (she) obtained special training or education.
Footnote.

Section 1840. Original section/article: 769. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1841. Original section/article: 770. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Securing of evidence
1. The parties that have a reason to be worried that the representation of necessary evidences for them will be impossible or difficult, may ask a judge, body (civil servant) considering a case on administrative infraction on securing of these evidences.
2. Securing of evidences shall be carried out by demanding representation of documents, details and conclusions, performance of examinations, survey on the spot and by other methods from organizations independently from their participation in the case.

Section 1842. Original section/article: 771. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Application on securing of evidences
1. The application on securing of evidences shall include: the evidences that are required to be secured; the evidences the confirmation of which requires these evidences; the reasons inducing an applicant to make a request on securing, as well as the case for which these evidences are required.
2. The statement is filed a lawsuit, body (official), considering case of administrative offense, in writing or in electronic form, certified by the digital signature.
Footnote.

Section 1843. Original section/article: 771. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1844. Original section/article: 772. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Assignment and performance of examination
1. The examination shall be assigned by a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction, when the circumstances having significance for the case may be received in a result of investigation of the case materials conducted by an expert on the basis of special scientific knowledge.
2. Existence of certificates of audit, inspection, conclusions of departmental inspections, as well as official documents drawn up according to results of investigations conducted by specialists in the course of procedural actions shall not exclude a possibility to conduct an examination on the same issues.
3. The judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction may assign an examination upon petition of parties or at own initiative.
4. Performance of an examination may be instructed to employees of the examination bodies or to other persons satisfying requirements of Articles 757 of this Code. Performance of an examination may be instructed to a person from among those proposed by the parties. The requirements of a judge, civil servant on call of the person that is instructed by performance of the examination shall be compulsory for the head of the organization where the mentioned person works.
5. On assignment of an examination, the judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction shall issue a ruling in which he (she) states:
1) last name, initials of a judge, civil servant, name of a court, body;
2) time, place of assignment of an examination;
3) grounds for assignment of an examination;
4) last name, first name, patronymic (when available) of an expert or name of an examination body in which it shall be performed;
5) issues set before an expert;
6) list of materials represented in disposal of an expert.
The ruling shall also contain records on explanation of the rights and obligations to an expert and on the warning on liability for giving knowingly false opinion.
6. The single-discipline expert panel may be assigned for performance of complex expert investigations that shall be performed by no less than two experts of one specialty.
7. The comprehensive examination shall be assigned if for establishment of the circumstance having significance for a case it is required investigation on the basis of different branches of knowledge that shall be performed by experts of different specialties within own competence.
8. Before direction of a ruling on assignment of an examination for execution, the judge, body (civil servant) that assigned the forensic examination shall be obliged to familiarize the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the injured party with it, to explain the rights to them:
1) challenge an expert or file petition on dismissal from performance of an examination of the body of forensic examination;
2) file petitions on assignment of the persons or employees of particular bodies of forensic examination specified by them as experts, as well as on performance of an examination by the committee of experts;
3) file petition on raising additional questions before an expert or on clarification of the raised questions;
4) attend during performance of an examination, to give explanations to an expert upon authorization of a judge or body (civil servant) that assigned the forensic examination, with the exception of cases precluding performance of the examination;
5) familiarize with expert’s opinion or report on impossibility to give an opinion after its delivery to a judge or body (civil servant) that assigned the forensic examination, to represent own remarks, to file petitions on assignment of additional or repeated examination, assignment of new examinations.
The examination of injured parties shall be performed only with their written agreement. If these persons did not attain majority age or recognized incapable by court, he written agreement for performance of the examination shall be given by their legal representatives.
9. Based on the results of performance of an examination, the expert (experts) shall give an opinion in his (her) own name, drawn up in accordance with the requirements of

Section 1845. Original section/article: 773. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code and shall direct it to a judge, body (civil servant) that assigned the examination.
10. Upon insufficient clarity and completeness, as well as in case of necessity of solution of additional issues linked with the previous investigation, the additional examination the performance of which is instructed to the same or another expert (experts) shall be assigned.
11. If the opinion of the expert is substantiated insufficiently or his (her) conclusions raise doubts or the procedural rules on assignment and performance of an examination were essentially violated, the repeated examination, the performance of which is instructed to the committee of experts which does not include the expert (experts) that performed the previous examination, may be assigned for investigation the same objects and solution of the same issues.
12. Ruling of a judge, body (civil servant) on assignment of additional and repeated examinations shall be substantiated. Upon instructing of additional and repeated examinations to an expert (experts), the opinions drawn up based on the results of the previous examinations shall be represented.
13. If before conduct of investigation, the expert is assured that the issues set before him (her) are beyond his (her) special knowledge or the materials provided to him (her) are unsuitable or insufficient for giving an opinion and may not be performed, or the state of science and expert practice does not allow to answer to the raised issues, he (she) shall draw up a substantiated report on impossibility to give the opinion and direct it to a judge, body (civil servant).

Section 1846. Original section/article: 773. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Opinion and testimony of an expert and specialist
1. Expert’s opinion – the conclusions represented in written form on the issues set before him (her) by a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction, based on the results of investigation of case materials, including material evidences and samples, performed with the use of special scientific knowledge. The opinion shall also include the methods applied by an expert during investigation, the substantiation of answers to the raised issues and circumstances having significance for a case established at the initiative of the expert himself (herself).
2. Conclusion shall be made by an expert (experts) after surveys in consideration of its outcomes on its behalf shall be certified by its certified by their signature and private seal. In case of expertise evaluation by expert authority, signature of an expert (experts) shall be affixed by the seal of respective authority. Conclusion of an expert (experts), presented in electronic form shall be certified by their electronic digital signature, as well as by expertizing authority in expertise by the above authority.
3. The opinion of an expert shall include: date of its drawing up, terms and place of the examination; grounds for performance of forensic examination; details on a judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction; details on a body of forensic examination and (or) expert (experts) being instructed to perform the examination (last name, first name, patronymic (when available), education, specialty, work experience with a relevant degree, academic degree and academic rank, current position); mark certified by the signature of an expert that he (she) is informed on criminal liability for giving knowingly false opinions in court; issues set before an expert (experts); details on participants of a process attending during performance of an examination and the explanations given by them; objects; content and results of investigations with specification of used methods; assessment of results of performed investigations, substantiation and formulation of the conclusions on the issues set before an expert (experts).
4. The opinion shall contain substantiation of impossibility to answer to all or several of the raised issues, if the circumstances mentioned in a part thirteen of

Section 1847. Original section/article: 772. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code are detected in the course of investigation.
5. Expert testimony – the details reported by him (her) in the course of consideration of a case on administrative infraction for the purpose of clarification or specification of the opinion represented to them in accordance with requirements of

Section 1848. Original section/article: 757. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
6. Specialist’s opinion – judgement represented in written form on the issues raised before a specialist by the authorized body carrying out administrative infraction proceeding, or by parties upon answers to which, the conduct of the relevant investigation is not required.
7. The opinion of a specialist consists of introductory, descriptive parts and opinions. The introductory part shall contain: date, place, time for giving an opinion; civil servant that instructed performance of the special investigation; details on a specialist (last name, first name, patronymic (when available), education, specialty, work experience, academic rank, current position. The descriptive part shall contain the issues raised before a specialist, objects, materials, documents represented to a specialist for giving an opinion, the persons attending during investigation. Conclusions shall reflect answers of a specialist to raised issues and their scientific rationale.
8. Specialist evidence – the details reported by him (her) in the course of consideration of a case on administrative infraction, on circumstances requiring special knowledge, as well as clarification of own opinion in accordance with requirements of

Section 1849. Original section/article: 756. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
9. Materials illustrating opinion of an expert, specialist (photo board, schemes, schedules, tables and other materials) certified in the manner provided by a part two of this Article shall be accompanied to the opinion and constitute its component part. The opinion shall be also accompanied by the objects left after investigation, including samples.
10. The opinion of an expert, specialist is not compulsory for a court, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction, however their disagreement with the opinion shall be substantiated.
Footnote.

Section 1850. Original section/article: 773. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1851. Original section/article: 774. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sample acquisition
1. The judge shall have the right to obtain samples, as well as those representing properties of human, animal, substance, subject, if their investigation has significance for a case.
2. The samples shall also include test samples of materials, substances, raw materials, finished products.
3. The reasoned ruling shall be issued on sample acquisition, that shall include: a person that will obtain samples; a person (organization) from which it is required to obtain samples; which exactly samples and in which quantity should be obtained; when and to whom shall person come for obtainment of samples from him (her); when and to whom the samples should be represented after their obtainment.
4. The samples may be obtained by a judge in person, and in case of necessity – with participation of a doctor or the other specialist, if it is not linked with uncovering of the opposite sex from whom the samples are obtained, and if it does not require special professional skills. In other cases, the samples may be obtained by a doctor or the other specialist under a commission of a judge.
5. A judge, expert, doctor or the other specialist shall have the right to obtain samples.
6. In cases when sample acquisition is a part of expert investigation, it may be performed by an expert.
7. The samples may be obtained from parties, as well as from third parties.
8. The judge shall summon a person, familiarize him (her) with a ruling on sample acquisition against receipt, explain the rights and obligations to him (her) and other persons participating in this procedural action.
9. A judge shall perform necessary actions, receive samples, pack them and seal in person or with participation of a specialist.
10. The results of sample acquisition shall be recorded in a protocol of procedural action (court sitting) in which the actions taken for obtainment of samples in a sequence in which they were performed, the scientific research and other methods and procedures applied by this, as well as the samples themselves, are described.

Section 1852. Original section/article: 775. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sample acquisition by a doctor or other specialist, as well as other expert
1. The judge shall direct the person from whom the samples should be obtained to a doctor or other specialist, as well as ruling with the relevant commission. The ruling shall contain the rights and obligations of all the participants of this procedural action.
2. The doctor or the other specialist shall perform any necessary actions and obtain samples under commission of a judge. Samples shall be packed and sealed, after what they shall be directed to a judge together with official document drawn up by a doctor or other specialist.
3. In a process of investigation, the expert may produce experimental models, on which he (she) shall report in opinion.
4. The judge shall have the right to attend upon production of such samples that should be reflected in a protocol drawn up by them.
5. After conduct of investigation, the expert shall attach the samples to own opinion in a packed and sealed form.
6. If the samples are obtained under a commission of a judge by a specialist or expert, he (she) shall draw up official document that shall be signed by all the participants of procedural action and transferred to the judge for attaching to case materials.
7. The protocol shall be accompanied by obtained samples in a packed and sealed form.

Section 1853. Original section/article: 776. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Protection of individual rights upon sample acquisition
The methods and scientific technical means of sample acquisition shall be safe for life and health of human. Applying complex medical procedures and methods causing strong pain senses shall be admitted only with written agreement of the person from which the samples should be obtained, and if he (she) is under majority age or suffers from mental diseases, with written agreement of his (her) legal representatives.

Section 1854. Original section/article: 777. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Material evidences
1. Material evidences on a case on administrative infraction are the subjects that are the tool or subject for commission of infraction or that preserved its traces.
2. In necessary cases, the material evidences shall be photographed or recorded by other method and attached to a case, whereat the entry in a protocol on administrative infraction or another protocol provided by this Code shall be made.
3. The judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction shall be obliged to take all necessary measures to ensure preservation of material evidences before solution of the case in essence, as well as to adopt decision on them upon completion of consideration of the case.

Section 1855. Original section/article: 778. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Scientific technical means
1. The court, body (civil servant) and participants of the administrative infraction proceeding shall have the right to use and represent actual data received upon using scientific technical means.
2. Use of scientific technical means shall be recognized admissible, if they:
1) explicitly provided by the Law or do not contradict its rules and principles;
2) scientifically well-grounded;
3) ensure effectiveness of proceeding on a case;
4) safe.
3. Actual data received upon use of scientifically technical means shall be reflected in a protocol on administrative infraction or decree on a case on administrative infraction.

Section 1856. Original section/article: 779. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Documents
1. The documents shall be recognized as evidences on a case, if the details stated or certified in them by organizations, civil servants and individuals, have significance for a case on administrative infraction.
2. The documents may contain details recorded as in written, so in other form. Materials containing computer information, photo survey and cine filming, sound and video recording received, demanded or represented in the manner provided by this Code may be also referred to the documents.
3. Driving license for the right of operation of transport vehicle is a document having significance for a case only in cases of its verification and adoption of a decision on deprivation of the right of an individual to operate transport vehicle.
4. The judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which includes a case on administrative infraction shall be obliged to take necessary measures to ensure preservation of documents before solution of the case in essence, as well as adopt decision on them upon completion of consideration of the case.
5. In cases when the documents have the signs mentioned in

Section 1857. Original section/article: 777. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, they are material evidences.

Section 1858. Original section/article: 780. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Demand of additional details
1. The judge, body (civil servant) the proceeding of which include a case on administrative infraction shall have the right to issue a ruling on demand of additional details from organizations, public associations, required for solution of the case.
2. In the ruling of a judge, body (civil servant) on demand of additional details, the brief of the merit of considered case shall be stated, the circumstances subjected to clarification shall be specified. This ruling shall be compulsory for a court to which it is directed, and subjected to execution within the established term.
3. Demanded details shall be directed within three days from the date of receipt of requirement.
4. Upon impossibility to represent the mentioned details, the organization, public association shall be obliged to notify a judge, body (civil servant) that issued the ruling in written form within three days.

Section 1859. Original section/article: 781. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Proving
1. Proving consists of collection, verification and assessment of evidences for the purpose of establishment of the circumstances having significance for a legal, substantiated and fair consideration of cases on administrative infractions.
2. Burden of proving the existence of the grounds of administrative liability and guilt of infraction shall be imposed on a body (civil servant) authorized to consider the proceeding on cases on administrative infractions.

Section 1860. Original section/article: 782. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Collection of evidences
1. Collection of evidences shall be carried out in a process of the administrative infraction proceeding by carrying out the actions provided by this Code.
2. Subjects and documents shall be attached to the case after their assessment whereat the relevant record shall be entered in a protocol on administrative infractions or a separate protocol shall be drawn up.
Acceptance of subjects and documents from the persons that are participants of the administrative infractions proceeding shall be carried out on the basis of a petition.

Section 1861. Original section/article: 783. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Inspection
All the evidences collected on a case on administrative infraction shall be subject to detailed, comprehensive and objective inspection. The inspection includes an analysis of received evidence, its correlation with other evidences, collection of additional evidences, inspection of the sources of evidences.

Section 1862. Original section/article: 784. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Evaluation of evidences
1. Evaluation of evidences is a logical intellectual activity consisting of analysis and synthesis of evidences and terminating with a summary on relevance, admissibility, credibility and value of separate evidences and sufficiency of their totality for substantiation of adopted decision.
2. The judge, body (civil servant) carrying out the administrative infraction proceeding shall evaluate evidences at own inner conviction based on comprehensive, full and objective consideration of the evidences in their totality, governed by the Law and conscience. No evidences have a predetermined established force.
3. Each evidence shall be subject to evaluation from the point of view of relevance, admissibility, credibility, and all the evidences collected in total – sufficiency for solution of a case.
4. The evidence shall be recognized related to a case if it represents actual data that confirms, deny or challenge the summaries on existence of the circumstances having a significance for a case.
5. The evidence shall be recognized admitted if it is received in the manner provided by this Code.
6. The evidence shall be recognized credible if in results of inspection it is clear that it conforms to actuality.
7. The totality of evidences shall be recognized sufficient for solution of a case, if all the admitted and credible evidences related to the case establishing the issue about all and each of the circumstances subjected to proving without controversy, are collected.
Chapter 40. TAKING MEASURES OF ENSURING THE ADMINISTRATIVE
INFRACTIONS PROCEEDING

Section 1863. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding
1. For the purposes of suppressing an administrative offence, identifying the person suspected of committing it, drawing up a protocol on an administrative offence when it is impossible to draw it up at the place of commission of an administrative offence, ensuring timely and proper hearing of the case and enforcement of the decision taken on the case, executed prescription on the need to pay the fine, prevention of an immediate threat to life or health of people, threat of accident or man-made disasters, within the limits of his/her authority, the authorised official may apply the following measures to ensure proceedings on a case of an administrative offence in respect of an individual:
1) bringing to the place of drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction;
2) administrative detention of an individual;
3) bringing;
4) personal inspection and search of things being in possession of an individual;
5) search of transport vehicles, small size vessels;
6) withdrawal of documents, things and goods;
7) suspension from operation of transport vehicle or small size vessel and examination of his (her) state of alcohol, drug, substance abuse intoxication;
8) detention, bringing and prohibition to operate transport vehicle or small size vessel;
9) survey;
10) medical certification of an individual of the state of alcohol, drug or substance abuse intoxication;
11) suspension or prohibition of the activity or its separate types in order of

Section 1864. Original section/article: 48. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. In respect of a legal entity, the following measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding may be applied:
1) survey of premises, territories, goods located there, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as the relevant documents;
2) withdrawal of documents belonging to a legal entity;
3) arrestment or withdrawal of goods, transport vehicles and another property belonging to a legal entity;
4) suspension or prohibition of the activity or its separate types in order of

Section 1865. Original section/article: 48. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3. Measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding may be applied before initiation of a case on administrative infraction (except for personal inspection, search of things being in possession of an individual) during proceeding of the case, as well as at the stage of execution of a decree of the case on administrative infraction.
4. Each of the measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding listed in parts one and two of this Article may be applied separately or together with the other measures, if it is caused by necessity.
5. The civil servant shall bear responsibility for the damage inflicted by illegal application of the measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding.
6. Application of measures of ensuring proceeding of administrative offense can be appealed in the order provided by chapter 44 of the present Code.
Upon the demand of the natural person or the representative of legal entity he is immediately handed copies of the relevant protocols and other materials necessary for ensuring protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the person to which measures of ensuring proceeding are applied.
Footnote.

Section 1866. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1867. Original section/article: 786. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conveying
1. Conveying, i.e. forced transmittal of an individual, representative of legal entity, civil servant, and in cases provided by subparagraphs 1), 3), 4), 5) and 7) of this Article, transport vehicle and other tools for commission of an infraction for the purpose of suppression of the infraction, establishment of identity of the offender, as well as drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction or issuing restraining order upon impossibility to draw them up at the place of detection of the administrative infraction, if the drawing up of the protocol is compulsory, shall be carried out upon commission of:
1) violations of the rules of using transport means, the rules on protection of order and traffic safety, the rules oriented to preserve cargo in transport, the rules of fire security, sanitary hygienic and sanitary epidemiological rules in transport – by the authorized person to the internal affairs body (police), if he (she) does not have the documents certifying identity, and there are no witnesses that may tell necessary data about him (her), as well as if he (she) does not have necessary documents relating to transport vehicle;
2) forest violations or violations of hunting rules, fishing rules and protection of fish stocks and other violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of protection, reproduction and use of the animal world - by employees of forestry authorities, wildlife, specially protected natural areas exercising state control and supervision, and also specialized organizations of the authorized authority and local executive authorities, officials of other authorities exercising state and departmental control over the protection, reproduction and use of wildlife, officials of specially protected natural areas, employees of internal affairs authorities (police) to the internal affairs authorities (police) or to a local government;
3) administrative infractions linked with encroachment on protected objects, the other persons’ property – by employees of paramilitary security service to the service building of the paramilitary security service or to the body of internal affairs (police);
4) infringement of the regime of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, border and customs regimes, the regime at checkpoints across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, malicious disobedience to a lawful order or request of a serviceman of the Border Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, servicemen of other troops, military formations, an employee of the internal affairs bodies (police) - by a military serviceman, employee of internal affairs bodies (police) or other natural person performing duties to protect the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to territorial units of the Border Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their structural units, to an internal affairs body (police), a local government body”;
5) infractions in the scope of entrepreneurial activity, trade and finances, tax assessment, customs affairs – by employees of the service of economic investigations;
6) administrative offences, in respect of which administrative offence reports are drawn up by officials of the authorised anti-corruption body under sub-paragraph 30) of part one of

Section 1868. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code - by anti-corruption officers;
7) infractions committed upon conduct of protective measures on safety ensuring of protected persons – by employees of the State Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) other administrative infractions in existence of the relevant orders of a prosecutor or request from the side of civil servants authorized to draw up protocols on administrative infractions – by employees of the internal affairs bodies (police) to the internal affairs body (police) or another state body.
2. Upon commission of infractions on a continental shelve, in territorial waters (sea) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the offender the identity of whom may not be established on the spot, as well as vessels and tools for commission of the administrative infraction used for carrying out illegal activity on the continental shelve, in territorial waters (sea) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the belonging of which may not be established upon survey, shall be subject to delivery to the port of the Republic of Kazakhstan (foreign vessels – to one of the ports of the Republic of Kazakhstan opened for entry of foreign vessels) for suppression of the infraction, as well as for establishment of the identity of the offender and belonging of detained vessels, tools for commission of the infraction and drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction.
3. Conveying shall be carried out within a possible short term.
4. About bringing the protocol is formed or the corresponding entry in the protocol on administrative offense or administrative detention is made.
At impossibility to carry out bringing of the person in the terms provided for attraction him to administrative responsibility to the addressed body (official) goes in writing or in electronic form certified by the digital signature, the notice with the indication of the reasons for which bringing isn't made.
Footnote.

Section 1869. Original section/article: 786. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1870. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Administrative detention
Administrative detention, i.e. short-term restriction of personal freedom of an individual, representative of a legal entity, civil servant for the purpose of suppression of the infraction or ensuring the proceeding, may be carried out by:
1) law-enforcement bodies – at identification of administrative offenses, cases of which according to

Section 1871. Original section/article: 685. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code are considered by law-enforcement bodies (polices), or administrative offenses on affairs on which according to the subparagraph 1) of part one of

Section 1872. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code make protocols on administrative offense;
2) commandant's office of the place where the state of emergency is declared, and by military patrols – upon violation of regime of emergency situation and actions provoking the violation of legal order in conditions of emergency situation;
3) civil servants participated in anti-terrorist operation within the established competence – upon violation of a legal regime of anti-terrorist operation or non-performance of requirements established due to declaration of anti-terrorist operation;
4) civil servants of the Frontier service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan – upon detection of administrative infractions considered by them in accordance with a part three of

Section 1873. Original section/article: 726. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code or administrative infractions on the cases of which the protocols on administrative infractions shall be drawn up in accordance with subparagraph 44) of part one of

Section 1874. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
5) senior military servant at location of protected object, employee of the internal affairs bodies, special state bodies, civil servant of paramilitary security service – upon commission of infractions linked with encroaching on the protected objects, other persons’ property;
6) authorities of forestry, wildlife, specially protected natural areas, exercising state control and supervision, as well as specialized organizations of the authorized authority and local executive authorities - when committing infractions in the field of forestry legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of protection, reproduction and use of the animal world in the field of specially protected natural areas;
7) bodies of transport control – upon violation of the rules, the control of compliance of which is carried out by these bodies;
8) officials of military police – at identification of administrative offenses, cases of which according to

Section 1875. Original section/article: 727. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code are considered by bodies of military police, or administrative offenses on affairs on which according to the subparagraphs 4) and 5) of part one of

Section 1876. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code make protocols on administrative offense;
9) authorities of state control in the field of environmental protection and use of natural resources - in case of violation of environmental legislation; 
10) civil servants of the state revenues bodies – upon commission of infractions in the scopes of entrepreneurial activity, trade and finances, tax assessment, customs cases in accordance with the jurisdiction of cases on administrative infractions;
11) it is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 4/6/2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); 
12) civil servants of the state mining supervision bodies, Frontier service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, authorized body on geology and subsoil use, bodies on environmental protection and natural resources, republican body of fishing industry – upon commission of administrative infractions on a continental shelve, territorial waters (sea) and internal waters linked with violation of the license conditions regulating permitted activity on the continental shelve, territorial waters (sea) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, violation of the rules of conducting scientific or marine scientific researches, violation of the rules of burial of wastes and other materials, non-performance of legal requirements of civil servants of the bodies of protection of continental shelve, territorial waters (sea) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan on stopping of the vessel or impeding its carrying out;
13) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
14) civil servants of the State Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan – if the infraction is committed during conduct of protective measures on safety ensuring of protected persons;
14-1) by officials of the authorized authority: in the field of veterinary medicine, on plant quarantine - in case of violation of the rules, requirements, control and supervision over compliance with which shall be carried out by these authorities; in the field of plant protection - in case of violation of the rules, requirements, control over the observance of which shall be carried out by this authority;
15) bailiffs – upon non-performance of requirements on termination of unlawful actions in a room during a court session, as well as in the course of the forced execution of enforcement documents.
Footnote.

Section 1877. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 06.04.2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1878. Original section/article: 788. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for administrative detention
1. Upon administrative detention, the protocol shall be drawn up. The protocol shall contain data, time (to the exact minute) and place of its drawing up, position, last name and initials of a person that drew up the protocol; details on personality of a detained person; time, place and grounds for detention. The protocol shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, and by a detained person. In case of refusal of the detained person to sign the protocol, the relevant record shall be made. Copy of protocol on detention shall be delivered to the person detained for commission of administrative infraction.
2. At the request of the person detained for commission of administrative offense his relatives, administration in the place of work or study, the defender and also embassy, consulate or other representative office of the foreign state in the order established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan immediately are notified on the place of his stay. About detention of the minor the notification of his parents or persons replacing them surely.
3. The military unit and bodies of military police within their competence in which the detainee undergoes military collecting (military service) immediately are notified on administrative detention of the serviceman or citizen called on military collecting.
4. The rights and obligations provided by this Code shall be explained to the detained person, whereat the relevant record shall be made in a protocol of administrative detention.
5. Failure to explain the rights and obligations of a detained person is material violation of the administrative infraction proceeding and shall entail the liability provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. The person detained in the manner established by this Code shall be subject to immediate release upon failure of the circumstances that served as the ground for his (her) detention.
7. The persons subjected to administrative detention shall be detained in premises specially allocated for this, meeting the sanitary requirements and excluding a possibility of their willful leaving.
8. Conditions for detention of persons subjected to administrative detention, food standards and procedure for medical service of such persons shall be determined by the bodies of executive power.
9. The minor persons in respect of whom the administrative detention is applied shall be detained separately from adult persons.
Footnote.

Section 1879. Original section/article: 788. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1880. Original section/article: 789. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms of administrative detention
1. Administrative detention shall be carried out within a time required for achievement of the purposes mentioned in

Section 1881. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, and may last no more than three hours.
Beginning of the term of detention is the hour to the exact minute when restriction of freedom of a detained person became real independently from attribution of any procedural status to the detained person or performance of other formal procedures. The term of administrative detention in respect of a person being in a state of alcohol intoxication – from the time of his (her) detoxication certified by a medical worker. The expiry date of this term is expiration of three hours calculated uninterruptedly from the time of factual detention.
2. A person against whom proceedings have been initiated for illegal entry into protected facilities, breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the area of population migration, violation of the regime of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, border and customs regimes or the regime at checkpoints across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as on an administrative offence on the continental shelf, territorial waters (sea) and internal waters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, may be detained, where needed, to establish the identity and clarify the circumstances of the offence for up to forty-eight hours with a written report thereon to the prosecutor within twenty-four hours from the moment of detention. Persons who have committed breaches of the order established due to the imposition of a curfew in an area where a state of emergency or martial law has been declared may be detained by internal affairs officers (police) or military patrols until the end of the curfew, and those who are not in possession of documents may be detained until their identity is established, for a maximum period of forty-eight hours.
3. The person concerning whom proceeding of the administrative offense attracting administrative detention as one of measures of an administrative penalty is excited can be subjected to administrative detention before consideration of the case about administrative offense, but no more than twenty four hours.
Footnote.

Section 1882. Original section/article: 789. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1883. Original section/article: 790. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bringing in
1. For achievement of the purposes specified in

Section 1884. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
hereof, in case of failure to appear upon summons without valid reasons, a natural person or a representative of a legal entity in respect of whom proceedings on an administrative case are being conducted, a lawful representative of a minor brought to administrative responsibility, may be brought involuntarily.
The total period of the bringing may not exceed one month.
2. The following shall be recognised as valid reasons for non-appearance of a person who has been duly notified of the summons: illness that prevents the person from appearing, death of close relatives, natural disasters, other reasons that prevent the person from appearing on the appointed date. A natural person or a representative of a legal entity in respect of whom proceedings on an administrative case are being conducted, a legal representative of a minor brought to administrative responsibility, shall notify the body which summoned them of any valid reasons preventing them from appearing on summons within the appointed time limit. 
3. Bringing in shall be performed by the internal affairs bodies, the authorised anti-corruption body and the economic investigation service upon the ruling of a judge, body (official) hearing a case on an administrative offence.
4. The ruling on bringing shall be announced to a natural person or representative of a legal entity in respect of whom proceedings on an administrative case are conducted, to the legal representative of a minor brought to administrative responsibility, before its execution, which shall be certified by their signature in the ruling.
5. The bringing may not be performed during night hours.
6. No minors under sixteen years of age, persons under eighteen years of age may be brought without notification of their legal representative, pregnant women, women and men raising children under fourteen years of age alone, as well as sick persons who for health reasons cannot or should not leave their place of residence, subject to certification by a doctor.
Footnote.

Section 1885. Original section/article: 790. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1886. Original section/article: 791. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Personal inspection and search of things being in possession of an individual
1. Personal inspection is a forced checkup of human body and his (her) clothes for the purpose of detection and prevention of infarctions, discovery and withdrawal of documents, things and other subjects being a tool for commission or subject of the administrative infraction.
2. The search of things being in possession of an individual – checkup of things being in possession of an individual without violation of their structural integrity.
3. Personal inspection and examination of the things which are at the natural person are made only by authorized officials whose list is defined in

Section 1887. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code, of part one of

Section 1888. Original section/article: 98. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Criminal and executive code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is exhaustive. Production of the specified measures by other persons is forbidden and attracts the responsibility provided by the law.
4. Personal inspection may be carried out by the person of the same sex with inspected person and in presence of two attesting witnesses of the same sex.
5. Personal inspection and search of things being in possession of an individual may be carried out only during the administrative infraction proceeding. The ground for conduct of personal inspection and search of things being in possession of an individual is commission of administrative infraction by the person.
6. The search of things (hand-luggage, luggage, hunting and signing weapons) being in possession of an individual shall be carried out in the presence of the person in possession of which these things are, and with participation of two attesting witnesses.
7. In exceptional cases in existence of grounds to suppose that there are weapons or the other subjects in possession of an individual that may be used for infliction of harm to life and health of surrounding people, the personal inspection, search of things may be carried out without attesting witnesses with notification of a prosecutor about this within twenty four hours.
8. In the absence of a real possibility of participation of attesting witnesses in conduct of personal inspection and survey of things being in possession of an individual (in a hardly accessible location, night time, in conditions of emergency or military situation), they may be carried out without participation of attesting witnesses with compulsory application of technical means for recording its course and results.
9. In necessary cases, photo survey and cine filming, video recording shall be produced, and the other established methods for recording material evidences shall be applied.
10. Upon personal inspection, search of things being in possession of an individual, the protocol shall be drawn up. Copy of protocol on personal inspection shall be delivered to a person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted, to his (her) legal representative. The protocol shall contain data, time and place of its drawing up, position, last name and initials of a person subjected to personal inspection, type, number, other identification characteristics of the things including on type, mark, model, calibre, series, number, signs of weapons, number and type of ammunition, special technical means for conduct of the special operational investigative measures of information protection.
11. Application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other methods of recording documents shall be recorded in a protocol of inspection. Materials received upon conduct of survey with application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other established methods of recording material evidences shall be enclosed to the relevant protocol.
12. Protocol of personal inspection, search of things shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, by a person subjected to personal inspection, by the owner of things subjected to search, by attesting persons. In case of refusal of a person subjected to personal inspection, owner of things subjected to search from signing protocol, the relevant record shall be made.
Footnote.

Section 1889. Original section/article: 791. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication).

Section 1890. Original section/article: 792. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Search of transport vehicles, small size vessels
1. The search of transport vehicles, small size vessel, i.e. inspection of a transport vehicle, small size vessel conducted without violation of their structural integrity shall be carried out for the purpose of detection and withdrawal of the tools for commission of infraction or subjects of administrative infraction.
2. The search of transport vehicles, small size vessels shall be carried out by the authorized civil servant listed in

Section 1891. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code with participation of two attesting persons.
In exceptional cases (in a hardly accessible location in the absence of proper means of communication or when there is no possibility to involve individuals as attesting witnesses in force of other objective reasons), the search of transport vehicles, small size vessels, i.e. inspection carried out without violation of a structural integrity may be conducted without participation of attesting persons, but with application of technical means for recording its course and results.
3. The grounds for performance of search of transport vehicles, small size vessels are:
1) existence of sufficient grounds to assume that there are tools for commission or subjects of administrative infraction in a transport vehicle, small size vessel;
2) operation of transport vehicle by a driver being in a state of alcohol, drug, substance abuse intoxication, if the driver maintain disobedience to legal requirements of the authorized civil servants;
3) conduct of measures on detention of sought transport vehicles, small size vessels by the authorized civil servants;
4) if there are reasonable grounds to assume that the cargo transferred in a transport vehicle, small size vessel does not conform to represented documents;
5) necessity of reconciliation of the junctions and aggregates of a transport vehicle, small size vessel with data according to represented documents;
6) detection of disorders of a transport vehicles, small size vessels in existence of which the operation is prohibited;
7) detention of a transport vehicle, prohibition of its operation.
4. The search of transport vehicles, small size vessels shall be carried out in the presence of a person possessing them, or his (her) representative or a person operating transport vehicle, small size vessel on a legal ground. In exigent cases, they may be subjected to search in the absence of mentioned persons.
5. In necessary cases, for the purpose of recording of the subjects detected during search of transport vehicles and small size vessels, their photo survey, cine filming shall be performed.
6. Upon search of transport vehicles, small size vessels, the protocol shall be drawn up. Copy of this protocol shall be delivered to a person possessing the transport vehicles, small size vessels subjected to search, or to his (her) representative or person operating transport vehicle on a legal basis.
7. The protocol of search of transport vehicles, small size vessels shall contain date and place of its drawing up, last name and initials of a person that drew up the protocol, details on personality of the owner of a transport vehicle, small size vessel subjected to search, details on type, mark, model, state registration number, other identification characteristics of transport vehicles, small size vessel.
8. Application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other methods of recording documents shall be recorded in a protocol of search. Materials received upon conduct of search with application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other established methods of recording material evidences shall be enclosed to the relevant protocol.
9. Protocol of search of transport vehicles, small size vessels shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, by a person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted, by owner of a transport vehicle, small size vessel subjected to search, or by his (her) representative. In case of refusal of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted, owner of a transport vehicle, small size vessel subjected to search, his (her) representative from signing the protocol, the relevant record shall be made.

Section 1892. Original section/article: 793. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Survey
1. Survey, that is visual inspection of the vehicle, the area, objects, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, documents, living persons is made for the purpose of identification of traces of administrative offense, other material objects and also the circumstances important for drawing up the protocol on administrative offense.
2. The survey may be carried out before initiation of a case on administrative infraction.
Footnote.

Section 1893. Original section/article: 793. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the change made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1894. Original section/article: 794. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
General rules of carrying out of surveys
1. It is, as a rule, examined urgently when there is a need. If necessary and also upon the demand of participants of survey the protocol in which date and the place of his drawing up, a position, a surname and initials of the person which has made him, the information about the person fined, a look, quantity, other identification signs of things, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan including about type, brand, model, caliber, a series, number, signs of weapon, quantity and a type of fighting supplies, special technical means for conducting special investigation and search operations and cryptographic means of information protection are specified is formed.
The protocol of survey shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, by a person subjected to survey, by owner of things subjected to survey, by attesting witnesses. In case of refusal of a person subjected to survey, owner of things subjected to survey from signing the protocol, the relevant record shall be made.
2. The survey of living persons shall be carried out by civil servants listed in

Section 1895. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. The survey of living persons shall be carried out by a person of the same sex with surveyed person and in the presence of two attesting witnesses of the same sex.
The survey of subjects being in possession of a living person, i.e. checkup carried out without violation of their structural integrity shall be carried out by the authorized civil servants listed in

Section 1896. Original section/article: 787. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, in the presence of a person that owns or possesses these things with participation of two attesting witnesses.
In exceptional cases in existence of grounds to suppose that there are weapons or the other subjects in possession of a living person that may be used for infliction of harm to life and health of surrounding people, the survey may be carried out without attesting witnesses with notification of a prosecutor about this within twenty four hours.
3. Survey of the area, objects, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, documents except for specified regarding the second present article, is made with participation of witnesses. In exceptional cases (in the remote area, in the absence of appropriate intermedia or when owing to other objective reasons there is no opportunity for involvement of natural persons as witnesses) inspection can be performed without participation of witnesses, but with use at the same time of technical means of fixing of his course and results.
4. In case of necessity, the survey shall be carried out with participation of an offender, injured party, witnesses, as well as specialist.
5. The survey of detected traces and other material objects shall be carried out at the place of administrative infraction. If the survey requires additional time or survey on the spot of detection is essentially obstructed, the objects may be withdrawn and transferred to the other place accessible for survey in a packed, sealed and undamaged form.
6. All that was detected and withdrawn during survey shall be represented to attesting witnesses, other participants of survey, whereat the relevant note shall be made in the protocol.
7. Only those objects and also the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan which can be related to business are subject to withdrawal. The withdrawn objects, goods are packed, sealed up and certified by signatures of the authorized official and witnesses.
8. The persons participating in survey shall have the right to direct attention of the authorized civil servant to all that in their opinion may promote to clarify the circumstances of a case.
9. In necessary cases, the measurements shall be carried out, plans and schemes of surveyed objects shall be drawn up, as well as photography and imprinting by other means, whereat the relevant note shall be made in the protocol to which the mentioned materials shall be attached.
10. Copy of protocol of survey shall be delivered to a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted, or to his (her) representative.
Footnote.

Section 1897. Original section/article: 794. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 1898. Original section/article: 795. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Withdrawal of things, goods and documents being in possession of an individual
Footnote. Heading of

Section 1899. Original section/article: 795. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. . Withdrawal of documents and things, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are the tool or a subject of the offenses found on the place of commission of offense or at application of the measures of ensuring proceeding of administrative offense provided by

Section 1900. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code is carried out by the officials authorized to apply the appropriate measures of ensuring proceeding with participation of two witnesses.
In exceptional cases (in the remote area, in the absence of appropriate intermedia or when owing to other objective reasons there is no opportunity for involvement of natural persons as witnesses) withdrawal of documents and things, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are the tool of the offenses found on the place of commission of offense or at application of the measures of ensuring proceeding of administrative offense provided by

Section 1901. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code it can be carried out without participation of witnesses, but with use at the same time of technical means of fixing of his course and results.
2. About withdrawal of things, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and documents the protocol which copy is handed to the person concerning whom proceeding is conducted, or his representative is formed, or the corresponding entry in the protocol on administrative offense is made.
3. The protocol on withdrawal of the documents, goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and things (the protocol on administrative offense) contains data on a look and requisites of the withdrawn documents, a look, quantity, other identification signs of the withdrawn things, including on type, brand, model, caliber, a series, number, other identification signs of the withdrawn weapon, quantity and a type of fighting supplies, special technical means for conducting special investigation and search operations and cryptographic means of information protection.
4. The protocol is signed by the official who has made it, the person from whom the relevant documents, goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a thing, witnesses are withdrawn. In case of refusal persons from which the relevant documents and things are withdrawn from signing of the protocol in him the corresponding record is made.
5. The withdrawn things, goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and documents before consideration of the case on administrative offense are stored in the places determined by the official who has made withdrawal in the order determined by the appropriate authorized public authority.
6. The withdrawn fire and other weapon and also fighting supplies, special technical means for conducting special investigation and search operations and cryptographic means of information protection are stored or destroyed in the order determined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
7. After consideration of the case according to the issued decree the withdrawn documents, goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and things come back to their owner or will be confiscated, either are implemented, or are stored, or destroyed in accordance with the established procedure. On cases of administrative offenses in the field of traffic the withdrawn documents are stored before the execution accepted in the matter of the resolution.
8. The driver's license on the right of driving is subject to withdrawal only if for the administrative offense committed by the person the present Code has provided the sanction in the form of deprivation of the right of driving. In other cases the driver's license after drawing up the protocol on administrative offense immediately comes back to the right of driving to the owner.
Instead of the withdrawn driver's license to the driver the temporary certificate in the form established by authorized body is issued.
9. At failure to deliver by the driver of examination for check of knowledge of traffic regulations within two months from the date of obtaining the resolution on the direction on examination by the official who has issued the decree takes the measures provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of traffic safety.
10. The state plate numbers of transport vehicles shall be subject to withdrawn only in the presence of two attesting witnesses and (or) owner of a transport vehicle, by this the authorized civil servant that performed withdrawal of state plate numbers shall be obliged to explain the ground for performance of withdrawal to the owner of a transport vehicle. Withdrawal of state plate numbers of transport vehicles for the purpose of recovery of imposed fine shall be prohibited.
11. Withdrawn order, medal, lapel badge to honorary title of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakh SSR, USSR and other states shall be subject to return to their legal owner, and if he (she) is not known, shall be directed to the Executive office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
12. Withdrawal of things, the goods imported on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also moved across the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the documents which are at the natural person is made only in exceptional cases for achievement of the goals, provided by part one of

Section 1902. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the present Code. Application of this measure for, not provided by the present Code, attracts the responsibility established by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1903. Original section/article: 795. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
with the changes made by laws RK from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 22.11.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1904. Original section/article: 796. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension from operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel, and examination of the state of intoxication
1. The driver, navigator operating a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel, in respect of whom there are reasonable grounds to suppose that they are in a state of intoxication, shall be subject to suspension from operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel and examination of the state of intoxication.
2. Suspension from operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel, examination and appointment to medical certification of the state of intoxication shall be carried out by employees of the internal affairs bodies, military police respectively – upon commission of infractions by a person operating a transport vehicle of the national security bodies, Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan and bodies of transport control.
3. In case of disagreement of a driver, navigator with the results of examination, they shall be directed to the health care institution for medical certification.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
5. The protocol on administrative infraction shall contain date, time, place, grounds for substitution from operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel for conduct of examination. Copy of protocol shall be delivered to a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted, or to his (her) legal representative.
6. Act of examination of a state of intoxication shall be enclosed to the relevant protocol.
Footnote.

Section 1905. Original section/article: 796. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1906. Original section/article: 797. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Detention, conveying and prohibition of operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel
1. Upon commission of violations mentioned in Articles:
1) 230 (part two), 367 , 368 , 370 , 372 , 381 , 382 , 383 , 392 , 393 , 394 , 395 , 396 , 400 , 403 (part two), 406 (excepf for parts seven and eight), 463, 476 (part two), 478 (part two), 506 , 510 , 511 , 512 , 513 , 514 , 515 , 516 , 517 , 571 , 571-1 , 572 , 573 , 575 , 581 , 582 , 586 , 589 , 590 (parts Two, 2-1, three, four and 4-1), 597 (parts three and four), 608 , 612 , 613 (parts 3-1, four, five, six, nine, ten and eleven), 654 (in terms of infractions provided for by Articles 590 , 591 , 592 , 593 , 594 , 595 , 596 , 597 , 598 , 599 , 600 , 601 , 602 , 603 , 606 , 607 , 610 , 611 , 612 , 613 ) of this Code, the authorized official specified in part two of this Article shall have the right to detain, deliver and prohibit the operation of vehicles, vessels, including small boats, by delivering them for temporary storage to special sites, parking lots or sites adjacent to a stationary vehicle post control, including with the use of another vehicle (tow truck), vessel or small vessel, until the reasons for detention are eliminated;
2) 377, 400, 403 (part two), 406 (with the exception of parts seven and eight), 476, 478 (part two), 571 (parts five, six, seven and eight), 573, 575, 593, 628 of this Code, an authorised official specified in paragraph two of this Article shall be entitled to detain, deliver and prohibit the operation of vehicles belonging to foreigners or foreign legal entities by delivering them for temporary storage to special sites, car parks or areas adjacent to a fixed transport control post, including with the use of another vehicle (a tow truck), until the execution of the resolution on imposition of an administrative penalty, order on the necessity to pay the fine or until the payment of the fine under abbreviated proceedings;
3) 334 (part second), 590 (parts the first, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, ninth and tenth), 597 (parts first and second), 610, 611 present Codes, the authorized official specified regarding the second present article having the right to forbid operation of vehicles by withdrawal of the state registration registration plates before elimination of the reasons of the ban on operation of the vehicle.
Bringing (evacuation) of the vehicle for his temporary storage on the special platforms, parking or platforms adjacent to a stationary post of transport control, can be also applied in cases of violation by the driver of the vehicle of rules of a stop or the parking in his absence and also to the vehicles left by drivers on the road unguarded when it isn't possible to establish their location.
2. Detention, delivery and prohibition of operation of a vehicle, a vessel, including a small vessel, shall be carried out by employees of the internal affairs authorities, the Border Service of the National Security Committee for the protection and protection of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the military police when an administrative infraction shall be committed by the person driving the vehicle authorities of national security, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, transport control authorities within their powers, authorities of forestry and hunting, specially protected natural areas, state protection of wildlife (in case of violation of legislation in the field of forestry, fish, hunting economy, specially protected natural areas), officials of the authorized authority in the field of veterinary medicine, plant quarantine and plant protection, officials of state revenue authorities within their powers.
Bringing (evacuation) of the vehicle for his temporary storage on special platforms or parking can be carried out by local executive bodies.
3. Upon detention, conveying and prohibition of operation of a transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel, the act of due form shall be drawn up and attached to a protocol on administrative infraction.
4. Storage of detained transport vehicle, vessel, including small size vessel shall be carried out on special grounds and parking stands created under decision of the local executive bodies and that are the communal property.
Footnote.

Section 1907. Original section/article: 797. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); from 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); from 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced after ten calendar days after day of its first official publication); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1908. Original section/article: 798. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Survey of territories, premises, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as of relevant documents
1. The survey of territories, premises, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as of relevant documents shall be carried out by civil servants authorized to draw up the protocols on administrative infractions of legal entities in accordance with

Section 1909. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. The survey shall be carried out in presence of a representative of legal entity with participation of two attesting witnesses.
3. Upon conduct of survey, the protocol shall be drawn up. Copy of protocol shall be delivered to a representative of legal entity in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted.
4. Protocol of survey of territories, premises, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as the relevant documents shall contain date and place of its drawing up, position, last name and initials of a person that drew up the protocol, details on the relevant legal entity, as well as on identity of its representatives or another employee, the details on surveyed territories and premises, types, number, other identification characteristics of goods and other things, types and requisite elements of documents.
5. Application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other methods of recording documents shall be recorded in a protocol of survey in the course of its performance. Materials received in result of photo survey and cine filming, video recording, other established methods of recording material evidences shall be enclosed to the relevant protocol.
6. The protocol of survey of territories, premises, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as the relevant documents shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, by a representative or employee of legal entity in exigent cases, as well as by attesting witnesses. In case of refusal of a representative or another employee of mentioned legal entity from signing the protocol, the relevant record shall be made.

Section 1910. Original section/article: 799. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Withdrawal of documents and property belonging to a legal entity
Withdrawal of documents, goods, other property, subjects being a tool or subject for commission of administrative infraction, belonging to a legal entity detected at the place of commission of the administrative infraction or during conduct of survey of territories, premises, transport vehicles, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity shall be carried out by the civil servants mentioned in

Section 1911. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as by the authorized civil servants having the right to draw up the protocols on administrative infractions under Articles 235, 236, 237, 416 of this Code. Drawing up of withdrawal of documents, goods, other property belonging to a legal entity, as well as their storage shall be carried out in the manner established by

Section 1912. Original section/article: 800. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity
1. Arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity that are tools or subjects for commission of administrative infraction represents inventory of the mentioned goods, transport vehicles and other property with a declaration to a representative of legal entity, in respect of whom this measure of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding is applied, on prohibition to dispose (and use in necessary cases) of them and shall be applied in case if it is impossible to withdraw these goods, transport vehicles and other property and (or) their preservation may be ensured without withdrawal. Arrested goods, transport vehicles and other property may be transferred for safe storage of other persons assigned by a civil servant that carried out arrestment.
2. Arrestment on goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity shall be carried out by the authorized persons mentioned in

Section 1913. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, in the presence of the owner of goods, transport vehicle and other property and two attesting witnesses.
In exigent cases, arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property may be carried out in the absence of the owner.
3. In necessary cases, photo survey and cine filming, video recording shall be applied.
4. Upon arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity, the protocol shall be drawn up. Protocol of arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity, shall contain date and place of its drawing up, position, last name and initials of a person that drew up the protocol, details on the legal entity in respect of which this measure of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding is applied and on a person who possesses arrested goods, transport vehicles and other property, their inventory and identification characteristics, as well as the application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording shall be recorded. Materials received upon carrying out of arrestment with application of photo survey and cine filming, video recording shall be enclosed to the relevant protocol.
5. In necessary cases, the arrested goods, transport vehicles and other property shall be packaged and (or) sealed.
6. Copy of protocol on arrestment of goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity shall be delivered to a representative of legal entity in respect of whom this measure of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding is applied.
7. Alienation or concealment of arrested goods, transport vehicles and other property belonging to a legal entity by the legal entity in respect of whom this measure of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding is applied, or by a person carrying out storage of arrested property, shall entail the liability established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 1914. Original section/article: 801. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for suspension or prohibition of activity or its separate types
1. Suspension or prohibition of an activity or its certain types shall be carried out by an official authorized in accordance with

Section 1915. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code to draw up a protocol on an administrative infraction, for commission of which an administrative sanction may be applied in the form of suspension or prohibition of an activity or its certain types. The suspension or prohibition of an activity or its individual types shall be allowed for a period of not more than three days. Within the specified period, the authority (official) shall be obliged to send materials on the administrative infraction to the court, the authority (official) authorized to consider cases of administrative infractions.
2. An act shall be drawn up on suspension or prohibition of activity or its certain types, which indicates the basis for application of this measure, the date and place of its preparation, position, surname and initials of the official who drew up the act, information about the person in respect of whom the proceedings are being conducted on administrative infraction, the object of activity, subject to a temporary ban of activity, the time of the actual termination of activity, explanations of the person and other data necessary for the correct resolution of the case. In this case, the act on suspension or prohibition of the activity or its certain types shall be valid until a decision shall be made on the case.
3. The act on suspension or prohibition of activity or its separate types shall be signed by a civil servant that drew it up, by an individual or representative of legal entity the activity of which is terminated on a temporary basis. In case if the act is not signed by any of mentioned persons, the civil servant shall make the relevant record.
4. Copy of act on suspension or prohibition of activity or its separate types shall be delivered to a person whose activity if terminated on a temporary basis against receipt.
5. The civil servant that drew up the act on suspension or prohibition of activity of its separate types shall carry out stamping, sealing premises, storage places of goods and other material values, cash registers, as well as the other measures on execution shall be applied by persons mentioned in the act, event, required for temporary termination of activity.
Footnote.

Section 1916. Original section/article: 801. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 41. INITIATION OF CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE
INFRACTIONS

Section 1917. Original section/article: 802. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Reasons and grounds for initiation of a case on administrative infraction
1. The reasons for initiation of a case on administrative infraction are:
1) direct revelation by an authorized official of the fact of committing an administrative offense, taking into account the provisions of parts three and five of this article;
2) materials received from law enforcement bodies, as well as from other state bodies, bodies of local self-government;
3) reports or statements of individuals and legal entities, as well as mass media reports;
4) readings of certified special control and measuring technical means and surveillance devices operating in automatic mode and recording the commission of an administrative offense in transport and in the road sector by means of photographic and video recording of the traffic situation, determining the speed and direction of movement of the vehicle, its weight and (or) overall dimensions, axle loads, and the actions of other road users;
5) indications of monitoring and testing equipment and (or) of radiotechnical control.
2. The ground for initiation of a case on administrative infraction is the existence of sufficient data pointing to the signs of the administrative infraction in the absence of circumstances excluding the proceeding on case provided by

Section 1918. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3. The grounds for initiation of proceedings on an administrative offence under sub-paragraph 1) of part one of this Article in respect of an entity subject to control and supervision shall be:
1) the result of an inspection or investigation conducted in the manner prescribed by the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) direct detection of the fact of committing an administrative offence by an authorised official in the spheres of natural monopolies and publicly important markets.
The effect of this part shall not apply to cases of revealing signs of an administrative offence when exercising control and supervision in the spheres envisaged by paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 8, 11 and 12, as well as sub-paragraph 3) of paragraph 13 of

Section 1919. Original section/article: 129. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as when exercising state control in the field of state statistics in respect of respondents without visiting the State Statistics Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3-1. The decision to initiate a case on administrative offence under sub-paragraphs 1), 2) and 3) of part one of this Article in respect of investors included in the register of investors shall be taken after mandatory coordination with the prosecutor. The procedure for coordination shall be specified by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. The case on administrative infraction shall be considered initiated from the date of drawing up of the first protocol on applying the measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding provided by

Section 1920. Original section/article: 785. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction or issuance of the decree by a prosecutor on initiation of a case on administrative infraction, as well as from the date of declaring on establishment of the fact of contempt of court by a judge (court) from the side of a person attending the proceeding in the course of judicial proceeding.
In case if the administrative infraction is recorded by certified special monitoring and testing technical means and devices operating in automated regime, the case on administrative infraction shall be considered initiated from the date of direction the prescription on necessity to pay the fine in the manner provided by

Section 1921. Original section/article: 743. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as upon commission of administrative infractions, the cases on which are considered by the state revenues bodies, the case on administrative infraction shall be considered initiated from the date of a proper delivery of notification (notice).
5. The grounds for initiating a case on an administrative offence in accordance with subparagraph 1) of part one of this article in relation to the subject of control and supervision shall be the result of an inspection carried out in the manner established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on electric power industry and in the field of thermal power engineering, provided for in Articles 6-3, 6-4 and 6-5 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Electric Power Industry" and Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Thermal Power Industry", as well as the result of an investigation in the cases provided for in paragraph 7 of

Section 1922. Original section/article: 144-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
The effect of this part shall not apply to cases of detection of signs of an administrative offence in the implementation of control and supervision in the areas provided for in

Section 1923. Original section/article: 129. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, with the exception of paragraph 8-1 of

Section 1924. Original section/article: 129. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. The grounds for initiating proceedings for an administrative offence under sub-paragraph 1) of the first part of this article in respect of a control and supervisory body shall be the results of inspections and accident investigations undertaken pursuant to Articles 39-2, 39-3 and 86 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Civil Protection”.
Footnote.

Section 1925. Original section/article: 802. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 122-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 232-VIII of 17.11.2025 (shall take effect on 01.01.2026).

Section 1926. Original section/article: 803. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Protocol on administrative infraction
1. Protocol on administrative infraction shall be drawn up in a written form by the authorized civil servant, with the exception of cases provided by

Section 1927. Original section/article: 807. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. The electronic form of a protocol on administrative infraction may be used together with written form.
2. The protocol on administrative infraction shall contain:
1) date and place of its drawing up;
2) position, last name and initials of a person that drew it up;
3) details on a person in respect of whom the case is initiated (for individuals – last name, first name, patronymic (when available), date of birth, place of residence, name and requisite elements of a document certifying identity, identification number, place of work, subscriber’s number of phone, fax, cellular communication and (or) electronic mail (if they are available); for legal entities – name, location, number and date of state registration (reregistration) of a legal entity, identification number and banking details, subscriber’s number of phone, fax, cellular communication and (or) electronic mail (if they are available);
4) place, time of commission and merits of administrative infraction;
5) Article of the Special part of

Section 1928. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code providing administrative liability for this infraction; last names, first names, patronymics (when available), addresses of witnesses and injured parties, if available;
6) explanation of an individual or representative of legal entity in respect of whom the case is initiated; name, number, date of metrological verification, indications of technical means, if they were used upon clarification and recording of an administrative infraction;
7) other details required for solution of a case, place, including time and place of consideration a case on administrative infraction, as well as the documents confirming the fact of committing administrative infraction shall be enclosed.
3. Upon drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction, the language of proceeding shall be determined. The person in respect of whom the case is initiated, as well as other participants of the proceeding on case shall be explained about their rights and obligations provided by this Code, whereat the relevant note shall be made in the protocol.
Upon drawing up of a protocol on administrative infraction, the defence attorney or legal representative of a minor person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, shall be explained about their right to file a petition on transfer of the case according to court jurisdiction to the specialized district and equated to it the court for administrative infractions, and in the absence of it in a territory of the relevant administrative territorial entity – to district (city) court.
4. The protocol on administrative infraction shall be signed by a person that drew it up, and by a person (representative of the person) in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, with the exception of cases provided by this Article. In existence of injured parties and witnesses, as well as in cases of participation of attesting witnesses, the protocol shall be signed by these persons.
5. In case of absence or non-appearance of a notified person in a proper manner, in respect of whom the case is initiated, the protocol on administrative infraction shall be signed by a person that drew it up, with the note on absence or non-appearance of the person in respect of whom the case is initiated.
6. In case of refusal from accepting a protocol on the case on administrative infraction against receipt by a person, in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated, the relevant record shall be made in the protocol by the person that drew it up.
7. The individual or representative of legal entity in respect of which the case is initiated shall be provided by a possibility to familiarize with a protocol on administrative infraction. The mentioned persons shall have the right to represent explanations and remarks on contain of the protocol, as well as to state the grounds of own refusal from its signing. In case of refusal of these persons from signing the protocol on administrative infraction, the relevant record shall be made. The fact of signing the protocol by a person in respect of whom the case is initiated shall bear evidence of familiarization of this person with the protocol and shall not constitute a confession of his (her) fault in commission of administrative infraction.
8. An individual or representative of a legal entity against whom a case has been initiated, as well as a victim, a copy of the protocol on administrative infraction shall be handed over against a receipt immediately after it has been drawn up, except for the cases provided by part nine of this Article.
When drawing up the protocol in electronic form, the authorized person informs the participants in the proceedings on the case of its placement on the web portal of the "electronic government" and (or) the information service of the authorized authority in the field of legal statistics and special accounting. At the request of the person (representative of the person) in respect of whom the proceedings are being conducted in the case of an administrative infraction, a copy of the protocol shall be submitted immediately by handing it on paper or sending it to the postal or e-mail address indicated by him, as well as in another way, provided by the procedure for maintaining the Unified Register of Administrative Proceedings.
9. The protocol on administrative infraction in cases of its drawing up in the absence of a person in respect of whom the case is initiated on the grounds provided by subparagraph 4) of part one of

Section 1929. Original section/article: 802. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well part five of this Article within two days after its drawing up shall be directed by registered mail with notification of the person in respect of whom the case is initiated, or in the form of electronic document certified by an electronic digital signature. The fact of non-return of the protocol within three days from the date of receipt by the person in respect of whom the case is initiated shall be recognized as refusal from its signing, whereat the relevant record shall be made in a copy of protocol.
Footnote.

Section 1930. Original section/article: 803. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 1931. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Civil servants having the right to draw up protocols on administrative infractions
1. Duly authorized executive officers shall have a right to draw protocols on administrative infractions on cases regarding administrative infractions considered by courts:
1) internal affairs agencies (Articles 73, 73-3, 80-1 (parts two, four and five), 127, 127-2, 128, 130, 131, 133, 134, 147-1, 149, 150, 154, 156-1 (parts two and three), 160 (part two), 190 (parts two, three and four), 200, 282 (parts three and four), 381-1, 382 (parts two and three), 383 (parts three and four), 395 (part two), 398, 416 (relating to breaches of safety requirements concerning civilian and service firearms and ammunition, chemical products associated with the trafficking of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, and civilian pyrotechnic substances and articles incorporating them), 423, 423-1, 427, 433 (part two), 434, 434-2, 435, 436, 438 (parts two and three), 440 (part three), 440-1, 442 (part three), 443 (part two), 443-1 (part two), 444 (part one), 446, 448, 449 (parts two and three), 450 (part two), 453, 456-2 (parts three, 3-1, four, five, six and seven), 461, 462, 463, 476, 477, 478, 479, 480 (part two), 481, 482, 483, 485 (part two), 488, 489 (parts two, three and four), 490 (parts one and three), 495 (part two), 496 (parts two and three), 506, 510 (part four), 512 (part two), 513 (part two), 514 (part two), 517 (parts two, four, five, six and seven), 590 (parts 2-1, 4 and 4-1), 596 (parts 3, 3-1 and 4-1), 598 (part 2), 603 (parts 1 and 2), 606 (part 2), 607 (parts two and three), 608, 610, 611 (parts two and three), 612 (parts three and 4-1), 613 (parts one, three, 3-1, four, five, nine, ten and eleven), 615 (part four) 621 (part three) 654 (in respect of offences specified in Articles 590, 591,592, 594,595,596,597,598, 599, 600, 601, 602, 603, 606, 607, 608, 610, 611, 612, 613), 662, 663, 665, 667, 669, 674, 675);
2) authorised body in the field of civil protection (416 (on violations of safety requirements for machinery and equipment, chemical products in terms of fire and explosion hazard), 433 ( part two), 438 (part two), 462);
3) commandant’s headquarters of separate regions (Articles 476, 478);
4) military police authorities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan on offences committed by servicemen, persons liable for military duty called up for training and persons driving vehicles of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan envisaged by articles 73, 154, 434, 434-2, 436, 440 (part three), 444 (part one), 479, 482, 483, 488, 506, 590 (parts 2-1, 4-1 and 4-1), 596 (parts three and 4-1), 598 (part two), 603 (parts one and two), 606 (part two), 607 (parts two and three), 608, 610, 610, 611 (parts two and three), 612 (parts three and 4-1), 613 (parts one, three, 3-1, four, five, nine, ten and eleven), 615 (part four), 621 (part three), 652, 667, 676, 677, with respect to commanders (chiefs) of military units (establishments) under Articles 680, 681 of this Code, excluding persons specified in sub-paragraphs 5) and 6) of this part;
5) military police bodies of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan on offences committed by persons driving vehicles of special public bodies under 590 (parts 2-1, 4-1 and 4-1), 596 (parts three and 4-1), 598 (part two), 603 (parts one and two), 606 (part two), 607 (parts two and three), 608, 610, 611 (parts two and three), 612 (parts three and 4-1), 613 (parts one, three, 3-1, four, five, nine, ten and eleven), 615 (part four), 621 (part three), committed by military personnel of the national security agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan under articles 434, 434-2, 652, 667, committed by officers, employees and servicemen of the national security agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan under articles 440 (part three), 444 (part one), as well as with respect to other persons under

Section 1932. Original section/article: 506. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, with respect to officials of military units under Articles 676, 677, 680, 681 of this Code;
6) military police bodies of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan on offences committed by servicemen and persons liable for military duty who have been called to duty, as stipulated in articles 434-2, 506, 590 (part four), 596 (parts three and 4-1), 598 (part two), 603 (parts one and two), 606 (part two), 607 (parts two and three), 608, 610, 611 (parts two and three), 612 (parts three and 4-1), 613 (parts one, three, 3-1, four, five, nine, ten and eleven), 615 (part four), 621 (part three), 652, 667, 676, 677, as well as with respect to commanders of military units under articles 680, 681 of this Code;
7) authorized body in the water resources protection and use (360 (part one), 462);
8) of the authorised body in the field of veterinary medicine (Articles 415 (part two), 416 (on violations of safety requirements for food products subject to veterinary and sanitary control and supervision), 462, 463);
9) competent authorities in the fields of forestry, the conservation, reproduction and use of wildlife, the conservation, protection, restoration and use of flora, and specially protected natural areas (Articles 160 (part two), 381-1 (parts two and three), 382 (parts two and three), 385 (part two), 389 (excluding fish stocks and other aquatic animals), 396 (part two), 398, 462, 463);
9-1) competent authorities in the field of the protection, reproduction and use of fish stocks and other aquatic animals (Articles 160 (part two), 382 (parts two and three), 383 (parts three and four), 389 (in respect of fish resources and other aquatic animals), 392 (part three), 395 (part two), 396 (part two), 398, 462, 463);
10) of the authorised body in the field of environmental protection (Articles 139 (part two), 327-2 (part two), 328 (parts three and four), 331 (part four), 344 (parts one and 4-1), 416 (on violations of safety requirements for chemical products), 462);
11) public oversight authorities in the field of exploration (Articles 416, 462);
12) authorized authority in the field of culture (

Section 1933. Original section/article: 145. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
13) authorized authority in the field of tourism activities (Articles 462, 463, 465);
14) the competent authority in the field of gambling (Articles 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen), 444 (part one), 462);
14-1) the competent authority for lotteries and lottery activities (

Section 1934. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen);
15) authorities on quarantine and plant protection (Articles 400 (part two), 415 (part two) (on violation of the requirements of technical regulations in the field of circulation of pesticides), 416 (on violation of the requirements of technical regulations in the field of circulation of pesticides), 462);
16) authorities in the field of seed industry and grain market regulation (

Section 1935. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
17) local executive body of oblasts, cities of national importance and the capital (

Section 1936. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts two, seven, thirteenth (as regards the production of biofuel);
18) authorized authority in the field of circulation of biofuel (

Section 1937. Original section/article: 169. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen (with regard to circulation of biofuel), fourteen);
19) authorized authority in the field of livestock breeding (Articles 407 (parts two and three), 462, 463);
20) authorized authority in the field of agriculture (

Section 1938. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(on violation of safety requirements for machinery and equipment, chemical products);
21) state architectural and construction control and supervision bodies (Articles 319, 462, 463);
22) public authority in the sphere of sanitary-epidemiological well-being of the population ( articles 193 (parts two and three), 282 (parts three and four), 416 (on violations of safety requirements for food products, toys, chemical products), 425 (part two), 433 (part two), 462, 463, 476);
23) the competent authority for informatisation and communications (Articles 134, 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen) (where such offences are committed by persons engaged in the issuance of digital assets, the organisation of trading in them, or rendering services involving the exchange of digital assets for money, valuables or other property), 416 (relating to breaches of security requirements for means of communication), 462, 463, 638 (part two);
23-1) authorized authority in the field of maintenance of information security (Articles 462, 463);
24) authorized authority in the field of civil aviation (Articles 462, 563 (part two), 564 (part five), 569 (parts one, two and four);
25) authorized authority in the field of transport and communication (Articles 416 (on violation of safety requirements for machinery and equipment, chemical products), 462, 463;
26) transport control bodies (articles 462, 463, 613 (parts one, three, 3-1);
27) bodies of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen) (where these offences are committed by auditors or audit organisations) and Articles 245, 246 and 247 (part eleven), 462);
27-1) the financial monitoring authority (

Section 1939. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part nineteen) (where such infringements are committed by legal advisers, independent legal experts, sole traders and legal entities engaged in leasing activities as lessors without a licence, acting as intermediaries in the sale and purchase of immovable property, trading in precious metals and gemstones and jewellery made from them, accounting firms and professional accountants engaged in business activities in the field of accounting, the Government for Citizens State Corporation and mobile network operators), 462, 463 (where such infringements are committed by legal advisers, independent legal experts, sole traders and legal entities engaged in leasing activities as lessors without a licence, those rendering intermediary services in the sale and purchase of immovable property, those engaged in transactions involving precious metals and precious stones, as well as jewellery made from them, the Government for Citizens State Corporation, and mobile network operators);
28) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
29) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
30) the authorized body for combating corruption (

Section 1940. Original section/article: 154. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 173, 439, 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 665, 667, 676, 677, 678, 679, 680, 681);
31) state revenue authorities (Articles 151 (part two), 154, 158, 174 (part two), 176-1, 246 (parts five and six), 251, 281 (parts four, five and six), 282 (parts three, four, six, seven, eleven and thirteen), 283 (parts five and sixs), 283-1, 357, 462, 463, 489 (parts five, six, seven and eight), 528 (part 1-1), 532 (part two), 543 (parts three and four), 544, 545, 548 (part two), 549, 550, 551 (part three), 552 (part two), 590 (part four), 654, as well as for administrative offenses committed at automobile checkpoints across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, provided for in

Section 1941. Original section/article: 425. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part two);
32) authorized authority in the field of industrial safety (Articles 416 (on violation of safety requirements for machinery and equipment, chemical products with regard to fire and explosion hazard), 462);
33) judicial authorities (Articles 158, 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen), 462, 668, 668-1);
34) authorities which are licensers or those authorized to issue permits of the second category in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 319, 392 (part three), 462, 463, 465, 621 (part three);
35) authorized authority exercising management in the field of natural monopolies (Articles 171 (parts one and three (upon excess of the limit price for retail trade of oil products), 462);
36) of the authorised body for entrepreneurship (Articles 175, 462, 465);
37) bodies in the field of technical regulation and ensuring the uniformity of measurements and their territorial bodies (Articles 415 (part two), 462, 463);
38) authorities on state energy supervision and control (Articles 462, 463);
39) authorized authority in the field of regulation of industrial policy (

Section 1942. Original section/article: 416. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(on violation of safety requirements for machinery and equipment, chemical products, toys);
40) the competent authority regulating commercial activities (Articles 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen), 462);
41) authorized state authority in the field of state registration of legal entities, vital records (Articles 462, 463); 
42) authorized authority in the field carbohydrates (Articles 170 (parts seven, ten, and twelve), 171 (parts two and three (upon excess of limit price of retail trade of commercial or liquid petroleum gas), 356 (part fourteen), 462 (part three), 463);
42-1) authorized authority in the field of solid commercial mineral (

Section 1943. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part three);
42-2) authorized authority in the field production of uranium (

Section 1944. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part three);
43) authorized authority in the field of nuclear energy use (Articles 416 (on violation of safety requirements for machinery and equipment established by technical regulations on nuclear and radiation safety), 462, 463); 
44) The Border Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 382 (parts two and three), 383 (parts three and four), 395 (part two), 396 (part two), 506, 510 (part four), 512 (part two), 513 (part two), 514 (part two), 516, 517 (parts two, four, six and seven);
45) national security authorities (Articles 453 (parts two and three) (for commitment of infractions related to state secrets), 462, 477, 667);
46) State Guard Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan when taking guard actions (Articles 149, 425 (part two), 436, 477, 479, 482, 488, 506, 606 (part two), 652 (parts one, two, three, four and six) on administrative infractions committed by military servants of the State Guard Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan), 667);
47) the Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the audit commissions of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital (Articles 234-1 and 462);
48) state labor inspection authorities (

Section 1945. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
49-1) of the authorised body in the field of science and higher education (Articles 462 and 463);
50) local executive bodies of regions, cities of national importance, the capital, districts, and cities of regional importance (Articles 134, 145, 156-1, 294 (parts one and two), 381-1, 382 (parts two and three), 383 (parts three and four), 434-2, 451 (part seventeen), 453, 456-3 (part two), 462, 463, 489-1, 490);
50-1) authorized authority in the field of interaction with nongovernmental organizations (

Section 1946. Original section/article: 489-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
51) anti-monopoly authority (articles 159 (parts one, two, three, 3-1 and four), 160 (part two);
52) the state body in the field of medical services (assistance) (

Section 1947. Original section/article: 80. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts 2-2 and four), 81 (part two), 82 (part two), 127-1, 424 (parts three and five), 424-1 (for violation of the procedure of applying new methods and means of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and medical rehabilitation), 433 (part two), 462, 463);
53) authority in the field of circulation of pharmaceutical and medical products (Articles 426 (parts two, three and four), 462 и 463);
54) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
55) authorized state authority in the field of religious activities (

Section 1948. Original section/article: 490. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts two, six and eight (when such infractions shall be committed by executive officers of central government authorities);
56) state legal executives (Articles 665, 667, 669 (part one), 673);
57) officers of justice and other employees of courts authorized by a president of court or a person presiding over a court session (Articles 653, 654, 655, 656, 657, 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 663, 664, 665, 666, 667, 673);
58) persons authorized by akims of regions (cities or republican status, the capital city) (

Section 1949. Original section/article: 656. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
59) the competent authority for postal services (Articles 214 (parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen), 462);
60) the authorized body for civil service affairs (

Section 1950. Original section/article: 99. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 154, 173, 462 (parts three and four), 465, 661, 681);
61) penal institutions or pretrial detention centers (

Section 1951. Original section/article: 481. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
62) the authorized body in mass media (Articles 134 (except for items of erotic content), 156-1 (parts one and three), 451 (parts one, two, three, eight and nine), 462, 463);
63) bodies exercising state control over the use and protection of land (

Section 1952. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
);
64) the authorized body in the field of consumer protection and its territorial bodies (

Section 1953. Original section/article: 193. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part three), 462);
65) the competent authority for the protection of children’s rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 127, 127-1, 127-2, 130, 462);
66) social welfare authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 127-1, 462);
67) authority exercising state control in the field of conservation of energy and improvement of energy efficiency (Articles 462, 463);
68) economic investigation services (Articles 658, 659, 660, 661, 662, 665, 667);
69) the Office of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan (

Section 1954. Original section/article: 653. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
-1);
70) the authorised body in the field of state statistics (

Section 1955. Original section/article: 462. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
).
2. For administrative offence cases heard by the courts, authorised officials of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall also have the right to draw up reports on administrative offences (

Section 1956. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen) (in respect of legal entities, operating exclusively through currency exchange offices under a licence issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for foreign currency exchange transactions, and payment organisations), 462, 463).
2-1. For administrative offence cases heard by the courts, reports on administrative offences may also be drawn up by authorised officials of the competent authority responsible for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial institutions (

Section 1957. Original section/article: 214. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(parts one, two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen and nineteen) (in relation to the National Postal Operator and financial institutions (excluding legal entities operating exclusively through currency exchange offices under a licence issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for foreign currency exchange transactions, and legal entities whose sole activity is the collection of banknotes, coins and valuables, as well as payment organisations), 245, 462, 463).
3. A right to draw protocols on infractions on cases on administrative offenses consideration whereof is placed under the jurisdiction of bodies specified in Articles 685 – 735 of this Code have duly authorized executive officers of such authorities. In addition, a right to draw protocols on administrative officers have:
1) executive officers of an authorized authority in the field of transport and communications (Articles 230 (part two) (when such offenses are committed by passenger carriers), 581 (part two), 582, 583 (part three), 586, 621 (part four), 622 (part one), 623, 625 (for commitment of infractions with the use of motor transport and urban rail transport);
2) officials of specialized organizations of authorized bodies in the field of forestry, protection, reproduction and use of wildlife and protection, defense, restoration and use of flora (articles 138, 142, 143, 337 (parts one and two), 339, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376, 377, 378, 379, 380, 380-1,381, 382, 383, 385 ( part one), 394 (parts one and two), 395 (part one), 396 (part one);
3) huntsmen, directors of hunting entities and fish farms responsible for matters of wildlife conservation (Articles 382, 383 (parts one, two, three and four);
4) executive officers of the State Guard Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan during guard actions (Articles 297, 485, 504, 614, 675);
5) executive officers of bodies of military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to military servants and employees of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 437, 440 (parts one and two), 441, 444 (part two), 484, 485);
6) officials of the military police of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to employees, workers and military personnel of the national security agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Articles 437, 440 (parts one and two), 444 (part two).
Footnote.

Section 1958. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 1959. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 10.01.2015 № 275-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 24.04.2015 № 310-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.08.2015 № 343-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.11.2015 № 393-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 18.11.2015 № 411-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 27.11.2015 № 424-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 02.12.2015 № 429-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.04.2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 496-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 21.04.2016 № 504-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.04.2016 № 506-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); от 30.12.2016 № 41-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 134-VI dated 10.01.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 170-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); № 184-VI dated 05.10.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 210-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 211-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 240-VI dated 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 26.12.2019 № 284-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 26.12.2019 № 289-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 292-VІ (for procedures of enforcement, see

Section 1960. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 27.12.2019 № 294-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 13.05.2020 № 325-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of six calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 346-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 357-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 20.03.2021 № 21-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 132-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (see

Section 1961. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
for the procedure for entry into force); dated 30.12.2022 № 180-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 187-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2023 № 208-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 24-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); dated 15.04.2024 № 73-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 112-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 114-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (for the procedure for entry into force, see

Section 1962. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 09.04.2025 № 181 (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1963. Original section/article: 805. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Initiation of the administrative infraction proceeding by a prosecutor 
1. The prosecutor shall issue a decree on initiation of the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 82-1, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 129, 130, 173, 214, 361, 362, 363, 439, 451, 453, 455, 456, 456-1, 456-2 (parts one and two), 457, 465, 490, 498, 507, 508, 653, 660, 664-1, 666, 675, 680 of this Code.
2. The prosecutor shall have the right to issue a decree on initiation of the case and on other administrative infraction.
3. Decree of a prosecutor on initiation of the administrative infraction proceeding shall contain details provided by

Section 1964. Original section/article: 803. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 1965. Original section/article: 805. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 19.05.2015 № 315-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.11.2015 № 404-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 02.07.2021 № 63-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1966. Original section/article: 806. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms for drawing up a protocol on administrative infraction
1. The protocol on administrative infraction shall be drawn up immediately after detection of the fact of commission of administrative infraction.
2. Upon detection of administrative infraction in the course of inspection conducted in the manner established by the Entrepreneurship Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the protocol on administrative infraction shall be drawn up immediately after completion of the relevant inspection.
3. In cases of detection of administrative infraction upon carrying out monopolistic activity, unfair competition, as well as anticompetitive actions (inaction) of the state and local executive bodies, institutions, with mandates of the state regulation functions of market players activity prohibited by the Entrepreneurship Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the protocol shall be drawn up immediately after adoption of the relevant decision on results of investigation.
4. In cases of detection of administrative infractions in the field of tax assessment or use of budget funds in the scope of technical regulation and ensuring the uniformity of measurements, the protocol shall be drawn up immediately after completion of the relevant inspection.
5. In case of failure to pay a fine in the manner determined by

Section 1967. Original section/article: 897. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the protocol shall be drawn up within a day upon expiration of the term established by mentioned Article of this Code.
6. In cases when additional clarification of circumstances of administrative offence, identity of an individual or information on legal entity and identity of a representative of legal entity shall be required, in respect of which the case shall be initiated, the protocol on administrative offence shall be drawn up within three days from the date of establishment of mentioned circumstances, and on administrative offences provided by Articles 210, 213 (parts four, eight and nine), 217, 218, 220, 222, 227 (parts one, two, three and four), 228 (parts one and four), 239 (parts three and four), 243, 244, 251, 252, 464 (part one), 571, 572, 573, 575, 593 (part one) of this Code, as well as upon transfer of materials on administrative offences to the territorial branches within ten days from the date of detection of offence or a person that committed it. 
7. When an expert examination, specialist investigation or consultation with the prosecutor is required, the administrative offence report shall be drawn up within two days of receiving the expert opinion and/or specialist report or the prosecutor's approval.
8. In cases when on administrative infractions provided for by Articles 139 , 326 (part three), 327-2 (part two), 328 (part four), 331 (part four), 337 (part four), 344 (parts one and two) of this Code, the establishment of the fact of causing environmental damage, the amount of damage caused as a result of violation of the state ownership of subsoil, or the amount of economic benefit received as a result of violation of the requirements of environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan is required, the protocol on administrative infraction shall be drawn up within a day from the moment of establishing the fact of causing environmental damage, the amount of damage caused as a result of violation of state ownership of the subsoil, or, accordingly, the amount of economic benefit received as a result of violation of the requirements of environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
9. In cases when the requirements mentioned in a part six of this Article may not be executed by the reason of failure to establish an individual, the protocol on administrative infraction shall be drawn up on the fact of commission of administrative infraction within the terms established by this Article.
Footnote.

Section 1968. Original section/article: 806. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2016 № 34-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (order of enforcement see

Section 1969. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
); dated 02.01.2021 № 403-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see Art. 2 for the enactment procedure); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (see Art. 2 for the enactment procedure).

Section 1970. Original section/article: 807. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Cases when the protocol on administrative infraction shall not be drawn up
1. The protocol on administrative infraction shall not be drawn up:
1) in cases of commission of an administrative infraction that entails imposition of administrative sanction in the form of notification, if the person admitted the fact of commission of the administrative infraction;
2) if the administrative infraction is recorded by certified special control monitoring and testing technical means and devices operating in automated regime, the fine shall be drawn up in the form of prescription on necessity to pay the fine;
3) upon commission of administrative infractions the cases on which shall be considered by the state revenues bodies in case if the person admitted the fact of commission of an administrative infraction and agreed with imposition of a sanction, as well as paid a fine in accordance with

Section 1971. Original section/article: 897. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
4) upon address of individuals with application on restoration of violated rights, the cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 74, 75, 76, 78, 81, 82, 82-1, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 92-1,93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 128, 130, 132, 456-1 и 456-2 (parts one and two) of this Code shall be considered by a court without drawing up of a protocol on infraction;
5) if the administrative infraction proceeding is initiated by a decree of a prosecutor and upon establishment of the fact of contempt of court directly in the course of consideration by court in cases provided by a part three of

Section 1972. Original section/article: 684. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. Recovery in the form of notification shall be drawn up by the authorized civil servant at the place of commission of administrative infraction, with the exception of the infraction in the field of finance and trade.
The person that committed administrative infraction shall confirm own agreement with imposed sanction by signing of the second copy of the decree on issuance of notification.
Footnote.

Section 1973. Original section/article: 807. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 19.05.2015 № 315-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.11.2015 № 404-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.07.2017); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.07.2023 № 20-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1974. Original section/article: 808. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
– Sending of a protocol (order of a public prosecutor) for consideration of case
A protocol, and in cases provided by part nine,

Section 1975. Original section/article: 803. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code a copy of protocol (order of a public prosecutor) on administrative offense within three days after it has been drawn shall be sent for consideration at the court, authority (executive office), authorized to consider cases on administrative infraction.
When it is impossible to identify a person who committed administrative infraction, protocol on administrative infraction shall be sent within three days to the court, a authority (executive officer) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions after identification of a person who committed the administrative infraction.
A protocol, and in cases provided by part nine,

Section 1976. Original section/article: 803. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code a copy of a protocol (order of a public prosecutor) on administrative infraction, liability for commitment whereof may result in application of administrative arrest, administrative deportation of a foreign citizen or a person without citizenship out of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall be sent immediately after it has been drawn.
In cases provided by part three,

Section 1977. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, a protocol (order of a public prosecutor) on administrative infraction shall be sent within three days for consideration at the court, an authority (executive officer) authorized to consider cases on administrative infraction after expiration of the term specified in part one,

Section 1978. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
A protocol (order of a public prosecutor) on administrative infraction may be sent to a judge, authority (executive officer) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions in written or in the form of an electronic document certified by electronic digital signature.
Footnote.

Section 1979. Original section/article: 808. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1980. Original section/article: 809. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Termination of the administrative infraction proceeding before transfer of a case for consideration
In existence of at least one of the circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, the civil servant the proceeding of which includes a case, shall issue a decree on termination of the administrative infraction proceeding.
Chapter 42. CURTAILED ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION PROCEEDING

Section 1981. Original section/article: 810. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Grounds for curtailed administrative infraction proceeding
1. Curtailed administrative infraction proceeding shall be carried out on cases on administrative infraction, including the cases, the consideration of which is related to jurisdiction, for which the administrative sanction in the form of fine is provided according to the item of part one of

Section 1982. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, the individual that committed it is established admitting his (her) guilt and that is agreed with paying the fine in amount of fifty percent of stated sanction of the Article of special part of this Code and not appeal the submitted evidences.
2. Curtailed administrative infraction proceeding shall not be applied in the cases:
1) when the sanction applicable to the article or part of the article stipulates other types of penalties, excluding warnings;
2) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) commission of an infraction by persons having privileges and immunity;
4) commission of administrative infractions the cases on which are considered by the state revenues bodies;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
6) commitment of administrative infraction cases whereon shall be considered by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and an authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, as well as in case of drawing by authorized officers of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and authorized authority for regulation, control and supervision over financial market and financial organizations of protocols on administrative infractions on articles specified in parts two and 2-1,

Section 1983. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
7) committing administrative corruption offences.
Footnote.

Section 1984. Original section/article: 810. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2019 № 262-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1985. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for curtailed administrative infraction proceeding
1. In case of identification of an administrative infraction and identification of a person who committed it, an authorized person specified in Articles 804 or 805 of this Code shall initiate administrative proceedings, explain such person a right to pay penalty at the amount of fifty per cent of penalty amount specified in sanction of Article of Special Part of this Code within seven days and, where necessary, serve a pay receipt as per standard form.
If the administrative infraction is recorded by certified special monitoring testing technical means and devices operating in automated regime, the person shall have the right to pay a fine in amount of fifty percent of stated sum of the fine within seven days from the date of the proper delivery of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, with a receipt of the established sample.
2. In case of payment a fine in amount of fifty percent of stated sum of the fine within seven days, the case is considered in essence, decision entered into force, and a person committed on administrative liability. 
The cases shall not be subject to review that considered on rules of this Chapter, with the exception of cases provided by Chapter 47 of this Code.
3. In case failure to use or improper use of the right provided by a part one of this Article, the administrative infraction proceeding shall be carried out according to the standard procedure.
4. In the event of improper application of the summary proceedings in an administrative offence case, cases heard in line with this chapter may be reviewed upon protest by the prosecutor in the usual way within a year of the decision to apply summary proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 1986. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 43. CONSIDERATION OF CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS BY AUTHORIZED BODY (CIVIL SERVANTS)
Footnote. Title of Chapter 43 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1987. Original section/article: 812. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Place of consideration of a case on administrative infraction
1. The case on administrative infraction shall be considered at the place of its commission, and in the cases provided by this Code – at location of a authorized body (civil servant) the jurisdiction of which includes consideration of the case on administrative infraction. Upon petition of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the case may be considered at the place of residence of this person or at the place of registration of transport vehicles, vessels including small size vessels.
2. Cases on administrative infraction stipulated by Articles 333, 334, 571, 572, 590, 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596, 597, 598, 599, 600, 601, 602, 603, 606, 607, 608, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618, 619, 620, 621, 622, 623, 624-1, 625, 626, 627, 628, 630, 631 and 632 of this Code may be also considered at place of registration of vehicles, ships, including small ships, or at place of residence of a person in relation to whom proceedings on a case on administrative infraction shall be administered.
3. The cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 378, 379, 382, 383, 440 and 481 of this Code shall be considered at the place of their commission or at the place of residence of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted.
4. The cases on administrative infractions of minor persons, their parents or persons substituting them shall be considered at the place of residence of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted.
Footnote.

Section 1988. Original section/article: 812. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 295-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 1989. Original section/article: 813. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Preparation for consideration of a case on administrative infraction
1. The body (civil servant) upon preparation for consideration of a case on administrative infraction shall clarify the following issues:
1) if the consideration of this case is related to their competence;
2) are there the circumstances excluding the possibility of considering this case by a civil servant;
3) are there petitions, including on cases with participation of a minor person on consideration of a case in court at the place of residence of the minor person and challenges;
4) if the persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747 and 748 of this Code notified on place and time for consideration of a case.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 1990. Original section/article: 813. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1991. Original section/article: 814. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances excluding a possibility of considering the case on administrative infraction by a civil servant
The civil servant for consideration of whom the case on administrative infraction is transferred, may not consider this case in cases if this person:
1) is a relative of the person bringing to liability, or of injured party, their representatives, defence attorney;
2) is interested in solution of a case in person, directly or indirectly.
Footnote.

Section 1992. Original section/article: 814. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1993. Original section/article: 815. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Recusation and challenge of a civil servant
Footnote. Title of

Section 1994. Original section/article: 815. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. In existence of circumstances provided by

Section 1995. Original section/article: 814. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the civil servant shall be obliged to apply on recusation.
2. In existence of circumstances provided by

Section 1996. Original section/article: 814. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted, injured party, legal representatives of an individual and representatives of legal entity, defence attorney, prosecutor shall have the right to challenge civil servant.
3. Applications of recusation, challenge shall be filed to a chairman of civil servant.
4. Applications on recusation, challenge shall be considered by a chairman of civil servant within a day from the date of receipt.
5. Following the results of consideration of applications on recusation, challenge, the ruling on satisfying the applications or on refusal from their satisfaction shall be issued.
Footnote.

Section 1997. Original section/article: 815. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1998. Original section/article: 816. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Decision of a body (civil servant), adopted upon preparation to consideration of a case on administrative infraction
Footnote. Title of

Section 1999. Original section/article: 816. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The body (civil servant) upon preparation to consideration of a case on administrative infraction, shall adopt the relevant decision:
1) on appointment of time and place for consideration of a case;
2) on calling of persons, demand of necessary additional case materials, on assignment of examination in case of necessity;
3) on postponement of consideration of a case;
4) on transfer of a protocol on administrative infraction and other case materials for consideration according to jurisdiction, if the consideration of this case does not relate to its competence or the ruling on challenge of a judge, civil servant is issued;
5) on transfer of a case for consideration in essence in accordance with

Section 2000. Original section/article: 812. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. Decisions provided by a part one of this Article shall be issued in the form of ruling.
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
4. Upon establishment that there are two and more cases initiated in respect of one and the same person, the body (civil servant) authorized to consider the cases on administrative infractions shall have the right to consolidate these cases in one proceeding for joint consideration.
5. Upon preparation to repeated consideration of a case on administrative infraction due to non-appearance of a person bringing to liability, his (her) representative, witness without reasonable excuses in cases provided by a part four of

Section 2001. Original section/article: 754. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the body (civil servant) considering the case shall have the right to issue a ruling on bringing of mentioned persons.
Footnote.

Section 2002. Original section/article: 816. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2003. Original section/article: 817. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms for consideration of cases on administrative infractions 
1. The cases on administrative infractions shall be considered within fifteen days from the date of receipt of a protocol on administrative infraction and other case materials by a body (civil servant) legally competent to consider a case.
In case when the administrative infraction is recorded by certified special control monitoring and testing technical means and devices operating in automated regime, the case shall be considered upon expiry of fifteen days from the date of the proper delivery of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, with exception cases considered in essence in the manner of curtailed proceeding.
2. In case of receipt of petitions from participants of the proceeding on a case on administrative infraction or upon necessity of additional clarification of the circumstances of a case, the term for consideration of the case may be extended by a body (civil servant) considering the case, but no more than one month. The reasoned ruling shall be issued on extension of a term.
2-1. Where a state of emergency is declared in the Republic of Kazakhstan or in certain areas thereof, administrative proceedings may be suspended until the state of emergency is lifted.
3. In respect of a person subjected to administrative detention, a case on administrative infraction shall be considered no later than twenty four hours from the date of its detention.
4. If the person in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated, appeals the results of inspection and other circumstances on the basis of which the civil servant initiated the case on administrative infraction, the term for consideration of the case shall be extended by a body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction, until issuance and entering of the relevant court decision into legal force or expiration of the term for appealing the decision of the body (civil servant) considering a complaint of the person in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated.
Footnote.

Section 2004. Original section/article: 817. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2005. Original section/article: 818. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for consideration of cases on administrative infractions
1. Upon beginning of consideration of a case on administrative infractions, the body (civil servant) shall:
1) declare who considers a case, which case is subject to consideration, who and on the basis of which Article of this Code is brought to liability;
2) be satisfied in appearance of an individual or representative of legal entity bringing to administrative liability, as well as other persons participating in consideration of a case;
3) establish identity of participants of the proceeding on a case and check the powers of legal representatives of an individual or representatives of legal entity, defence attorney;
4) clarify the reasons of non-appearance of participants of the proceeding on a case and adopt decision on consideration of a case in the absence of mentioned persons or on postponement of consideration of the case;
5) issue a ruling in necessary cases on bringing of a person the participation of which is compulsory during consideration of a case, shall appoint an interpreter;
6) explain the rights and obligations to the persons participating in consideration of a case, provided by this Code, including the right to receive a gratuitous legal assistance on account of the funds of state budget;
7) determine the language of proceeding, shall explain the right to make statements, to give explanations and testimony, to present petitions, to deliver complaints, to familiarize with case materials, to speak during its consideration in native or other language that is known by the person in respect of whom the proceeding is conducted, to enjoy the services of an interpreter on a free basis;
8) permit the challenges and filed petitions;
9) announce a protocol on administrative infraction, and in case of necessity – other case materials;
10) hear explanations of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted, testimony of other persons participating in the proceeding, clarifications of a specialist and opinion of an expert, shall examine the other evidences, and in case of participation of a prosecutor in consideration of the case, shall hear his (her) opinion;
11) issue a ruling on postponement of consideration of a case due to: application on recusation or challenge of a civil servant considering the case, in case if his (her) challenge precludes consideration of the case in essence; challenge of a defence attorney, authorized representative, expert or interpreter, if the mentioned challenge precludes consideration of the case in essence; necessity of appearance of the persons participating in consideration of the case, or demand of additional case materials, as well as in cases provided by a part two of

Section 2006. Original section/article: 51. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. In case of necessity, the body (civil servant) shall issue a ruling on assignment of examination;
12) issue a ruling on transfer of a case for consideration in essence in cases provided by

Section 2007. Original section/article: 816. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. In case of participation of a civil servant that initiated a case on administrative infraction in consideration of the case, or a chairman of the state body whose representatives have the right to initiated cases on administrative infractions, they first shall represent explanations in essence of an infraction and proofs of guiltiness of a person in its commission.
4. In necessary cases, the other procedural actions provided by this Code shall be carried out.
Footnote.

Section 2008. Original section/article: 818. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2009. Original section/article: 819. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances subjected to clarification upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction 
1. Upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction, the body (civil servant) shall be obliged to clarify if the administrative infraction was committed, if this person is guilty of its commission, if it is subjected to administrative liability, are there any circumstances mitigating or aggravating administrative liability, if the material damage is inflicted, circumstances, provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, if the protocol on administrative infraction and other protocols drawn up properly, if the other case materials drawn up properly, provided by this Code, are there circumstances excluding proceeding on the case, as well as the circumstances allowing shall not brought a person to administrative liability, as well as to clarify other circumstances having significance for a proper solution of a case.
2. Upon establishment of circumstances, provided in part one of this Article, the body (civil servant) shall have the right to reduce a sum of administrative fine imposed on an individual in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated, and calculated according to the first paragraph of the first part of

Section 2010. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, but no more than thirty percent of total fine amount.
Footnote.

Section 2011. Original section/article: 819. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2012. Original section/article: 820. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Protocol of a court session
Footnote.

Section 2013. Original section/article: 820. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2014. Original section/article: 820-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Fixing of court session by means of audio, video recording
Footnote. Chapter 43 as amended by

Section 2015. Original section/article: 820-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2016. Original section/article: 821. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Types of decisions based on the results of consideration of a case on administrative infraction
1. After consideration of a case on administrative infraction, the body (civil servant) shall issue one of the following decrees:
1) on imposition of administrative sanction;
2) on termination of the proceeding on a case.
1-1. In case when the administrative infraction is recorded by certified special control monitoring and testing technical means and devices operating in automated regime, the decision on the case on administrative infraction shall be drawn up in the form of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, which is considered in accordance with

Section 2017. Original section/article: 817. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, with the exception of the cases, considered in essence in the manner of curtailed proceeding.
2. After recognition of a legal evaluation of illegal acts as incorrect in results of consideration of a case, the judge, body (civil servant) shall have the right to change classification of an infraction to Article or part of Article of the Law providing less severe administrative sanction.
3. Upon referral of a driver of a transport vehicle to pass the exam for testing of knowledge of the road traffic rules, the decree on referral for testing of knowledge of the road traffic rules, the copy of which is issued to a person referred to pass the exam, shall be issued.
3-1. Prior to sending an owner and (or) user of civilian and service weapon to pass examination to verify knowledge of the rules for safe civilian and service weapon handling, an order on sending for verification of knowledge of the rules for safe civilian and service weapon handling shall be passed and its copy shall be sent to the person to be sent to pass examination.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
5. Decree on termination of the proceeding on a case shall be issued in the cases of:
1) existence of circumstances excluding the proceeding on a case provided by

Section 2018. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) existence of circumstances that allow not to bring to administrative liability provided by

Section 2019. Original section/article: 742. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) transfer of case materials to the relevant bodies for solution of the issue on bringing of a person to disciplinary liability in accordance with

Section 2020. Original section/article: 32. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2021. Original section/article: 821. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication);

Section 2022. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Decree on a case on administrative infraction
1. Decree on a case on administrative infraction shall contain:
1) position, surname, initials of the official or name of the public authority that issued the decision;
2) date and place of consideration of a case;
3) details on a person in respect of whom the case is considered: for individuals – last name, first name, patronymic (when available), date of birth, place of residence, name and requisite elements of a document certifying identity, identification number, details on registration at the place of residence, place of work; for legal entities – name, legal organizational form, location, number and date of the state registration as a legal entity, identification number and bank details;
4) language of a proceeding on a considered case;
5) Article of this Code providing liability for administrative infraction;
6) circumstances established upon consideration of a case;
7) decision on a case;
8) procedure and terms for appealing decree;
9) terms of voluntary payment of fine or execution of another type of administrative sanction.
2. Decree on a case on administrative infraction shall be lawful and reasoned.
3. In decree on a case on administrative infraction, the issues on withdrawn things and documents being in possession of an individual, on withdrawn documents and property belonging to a legal entity shall be resolved, by this:
1) the subjects that are the tools or subjects for commission of an administrative infraction and belonging to an individual or legal entity brought to administrative liability, in cases provided by the sanctions of the rules of the Special part of

Section 2023. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall be confiscated or transferred to the relevant institutions or destructed; in other cases shall be returned to whom it may concern;
2) things prohibited to circulation shall be transferred to the relevant institutions or shall be destructed;
3) things of no value and that may not be used shall be subject to destruction, and in cases of petitions of interested persons may be issued to them;
4) documents that are material evidences shall remain in a case within entire term of its storage or shall be transferred to interested persons.
4. A ruling issued following a review of an administrative offence case shall be made in writing and signed by the official who issued the ruling, or shall be made in the form of an electronic document certified by an electronic digital signature of the public authority (official) that issued the ruling.
5. With regard to the case heard pursuant to a petition for immediate consideration filed pursuant to part one of

Section 2024. Original section/article: 744. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, sub-paragraph 3-1) of

Section 2025. Original section/article: 883. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the court shall issue a brief ruling.
The brief ruling shall consist of an introductory, dispositive and operative parts.
Upon written request of the parties to the proceedings or on its own initiative, the court shall issue a ruling consisting of an introductory part, a descriptive and motivational part, and a resolution part.
Footnote.

Section 2026. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2027. Original section/article: 822-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Prescription on necessity to pay a fine and procedure of its direction 
1. The prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall includes:
1) name, location of the body that drawn up the prescription on necessity to pay a fine;
2) details of the owner (user) of the transport vehicle, in respect of whom the prescription on necessity to pay a fine is draw up: for individuals - the last name, first name, patronymic (if available), date of birth, place of registration and other necessary personal data; for legal entities - name, organizational and legal form, location;
3) details of a transport vehicle: trademark, model, state registration number plate;
4) date, time, place, essence of an administrative infraction, article of this Code, providing liability on administrative infraction;
5) indications of certified special monitoring and testing technical mean and device, operating in automated regime;
6) name, number, date of metrological verification of certified special monitoring and testing technical mean and device, operating in automated regime;
7) amount of a fine;
8) terms of voluntary payment of a fine or in the manner of curtailed proceeding;
9) procedure and terms of the prescription appeal; 
10) electronic digital signature.
2. Along with a written form may be used an electronic form of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine.
3. Prescription on necessity to pay a fine with receipt of establishment sample shall be directed to the owner (user) of the transport vehicle within ten days from the date of fixing an administrative infraction.
An order for the need to pay a fine with a receipt of the established form for administrative offenses recorded in accordance with

Section 2028. Original section/article: 31. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, drawn up in electronic form, may be certified by means of an electronic digital signature of the authorized body if it is generated in the Unified Register of Administrative Proceedings in automatic mode.
Footnote. Chapter 43 as amended by

Section 2029. Original section/article: 822-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 131-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2030. Original section/article: 823. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Announcement of a decree on a case on administrative infraction and delivery of copy of the decree
1. A ruling on an administrative offence shall be announced immediately upon completion of the case, unless the right specified in part two of

Section 2031. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code has been exercised or exercised improperly.
In such cases, a text message shall be forwarded to the mobile phone number specified by the owner (holder) of the vehicle on the e-government web portal and/or the information service of the public authority responsible for legal statistics and special records within its competence, informing them of the transfer of the fine specified in the sanction of the Special Part of this Code.
2. Decree issued on the basis of results on consideration of the case on administrative infraction to the persons indicated in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747 and 748, shall be delivered and (or) sent within three days from the date of its announcement.
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 2032. Original section/article: 823. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2033. Original section/article: 824. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Determination on a case on administrative infraction
Determination on a case on administrative infraction shall contain details provided by a part one of

Section 2034. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, with the exception of terms of voluntary payment of a fine or execution of another type of administrative sanction.
Footnote.

Section 2035. Original section/article: 824. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2036. Original section/article: 825. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Correction of slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors
1. The body (civil servant) that issued a decree on a case on administrative infraction, upon application of participants of the proceeding on a case, officer of justice, body (civil servant) executing the decree on a case on administrative infraction, or at own initiative, shall have the right to correct slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors made in a decree without change of content of the decree.
2. Correction of slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors in a decree adopted on the basis of results of consideration of complaints, appeal petition, prosecutor’s protests against the decree on a case on administrative infraction shall be carried out in the manner established by this Article.
3. Consideration of an application on correction of slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors shall be carried out within three days from the date of receipt of the application.
4. Correction of a slip, clerical mistake or arithmetic error shall be carried out in the form of a ruling.
5. Copy of a ruling shall be directed to participants of a proceeding on a case, officer of justice, body (civil servant) executing decrees, as well as to body (civil servant) that drew up a protocol on administrative infraction within three days from the date of its issuance.
Footnote.

Section 2037. Original section/article: 825. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2038. Original section/article: 826. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Private representation
1. Upon detection of cases of violation of legality, as well as establishment of the reasons and conditions promoting commission of administrative infractions, the body (civil servant) shall make a submission to the relevant organization and civil servants on taking of measures on their elimination.
Submission of a body (an official) may be appealed within ten days from the date of its receipt in the superior body (an official). The decision of a superior body issued on the basis of results of consideration of complaint on representation, may be appealed in a specialized district and equated court for administrative infractions within ten days from the date of its receipt, the decision of which is not subject to appeal. Decision of a body (official) issued in manner of ruling.
2. Heads of organizations and other civil servants shall be obliged to consider a private representation within a month from the date of its receipt and inform a body (civil servant) that issued the representation on taken measures.
Footnote.

Section 2039. Original section/article: 826. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021). 
Chapter 43-1. PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL PROTEST DECREES ON CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION THAT DID NOT ENTER INTO LEGAL FORCE IN A SUPERIOR BODY (CIVIL SERVANT), PRESCRIPTION ON NECESSITY TO PAY A FINE 
Footnote. Code as amended by Chapter 43-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2040. Original section/article: 826-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Right to appeal, protest a decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine 
Decree on a case on administrative infraction the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, may be appealed by persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747, 748 and 753 of this Code, as well as may be protested by a prosecutor in a superior body (civil servant).

Section 2041. Original section/article: 826-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for appeal, protest of decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
1. Complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be directed to a body (civil servant) that issued the decree on a case, that drew up the prescription, that within three days from the date of receipt of the complaint, protest shall be obliged to direct them with all case materials to the relevant superior body (civil servant).
The complaint may be filed, and the protest may be entered directly in a superior body (civil servant) that are authorized to consider them.
2. Complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction shall be filed within ten days from the date of delivery of a copy of decree, and in case if the persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747, 748 and 753 of this Code did not participate in consideration of the case – from the date of its receipt.
Complaint, protest to a prescription on necessity to pay a fine may be filed within ten days upon expiration of the term provided by

Section 2042. Original section/article: 817. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
3. A complaint, a protest against a decision on an administrative offense case, issued in connection with non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of a tax obligation established by the Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or obligations provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision and compulsory social insurance, identified by the results of a tax audit, may be filed within thirty days from the date of delivery or receipt of a copy of the resolution.
4. Filing of a complaint, protest within established term of this Article shall suspend the execution of a decree on imposition of administrative infraction, a prescription on necessity to pay a fine until issuance of the decision on the complaint, the protest.
5. The complaint being filed to the superior body (civil servant) shall include details and confirm the requirements provided by

Section 2043. Original section/article: 833. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
In case, if delivered complaint do not conform to the requirements provided by parts one and two of

Section 2044. Original section/article: 833. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, it shall be considered as delivered, but shall be returned with specification of the term for completion. If within the specified term, the complaint is not represented in court, body (civil servant) after repeated lodging, it shall be considered unfiled.
Footnote.

Section 2045. Original section/article: 826-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (effective from 01.07.2023).

Section 2046. Original section/article: 826-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Consideration of a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
1. The complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be subject to consideration within ten days from the date of their receipt.
2. The superior body (civil servant) after beginning of considering a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall:
1) announce, who considers a complaint, protest; which complaint, protest is subject to consideration; who filed the complaint, protest; shall clarify if the consideration of the complaint, protest are related to their competence, if consideration of a complaint, protest does not relate to their competence, shall direct them with all case materials according to jurisdiction;
2) be ascertain in attendance of a person, or his (her) representative, in respect of whom the decree on a case is issued, the prescription is drawn up, as well as persons summoned for participation in consideration of a complaint, protest;
3) verify the powers of participants of the proceeding and his (her) legal representatives;
4) clarify the reasons of non-appearance of participants of the proceeding on a case and adopt decision on consideration of a complaint, protest in their absence or on postponement of consideration of the complaint, protest;
5) explain the rights and obligations to the persons participating in consideration of a complaint, protest;
6) read a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity of payment a fine and other case materials in case of necessity;
7) solve challenges and filed petitions, establish other circumstances necessary for full, comprehensive and objective consideration of the complaint, protest.
3. Upon consideration of a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, the legality and substantiation of the issued decree, prescription shall be verified according to available and additionally represented materials. The superior body (civil servant) shall have the right to establish new facts and examine new evidences.
Upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction a superior body (civil servant) shall be obliged to clarify, if the administrative infraction was committed, if this person is guilty of its commission, if it is subjected to administrative liability, are there any circumstances mitigating or aggravating administrative liability, if the material damage is inflicted, circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, as well as to find out other circumstances that are important for the proper resolution of the case.
4. The superior body (civil servant) shall have the right to postpone consideration of a complaint, protest due to demand of additional case materials, assignment of examination and in other cases when it is necessary for full, comprehensive and objective consideration of the complaint, protest.
5. In case of receipt of petitions from participants of the proceeding on a case on administrative infraction or upon necessity of additional clarification of circumstances of the case, the term for consideration of a complaint, protest may be extended by a superior body (an official) considering the case, but no more than ten days. The body (an official) shall be obliged to suspend the term for consideration of a complaint, protest upon impossibility of its consideration until solution of another case considered in a civil, criminal, administrative judicial proceeding or proceeding on administrative infractions, as well as in case of appeal of the results of tax and (or) customs checks, on the basis of which a case on an administrative infraction is initiated, to the superior body or when sending a request to a state body on issues of importance to the case. Decision on suspension or extension of a term, shall be issued in kind of a ruling.
5-1. If a state of emergency or martial law is declared throughout the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan or in certain areas thereof, the time limit for considering complaints, appeals against decisions on administrative offences, and orders to pay fines may be suspended until the state of emergency or martial law is lifted.
6. If the complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine delivered to the court and the superior body (civil servant) simultaneously, the complaint, the protest filed to superior body, shall be subject to direct them to the court.
Footnote.

Section 2047. Original section/article: 826-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2048. Original section/article: 826-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Solution of a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, and its announcement
1. After consideration of a complain, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, the superior body (civil servant) shall adopt one of the following decisions:
1) on leaving the decree, the prescription unchanged, and the complaint, protest – without satisfaction;
2) on change of the decree;
3) on repeal of the decree, the prescription and termination of a case;
4) on repeal of the decree, the prescription and issuance of new decree on a case.
2. The solution of the complaint, protest to the decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription shall be announced immediately after its adoption, and shall be issued in the form of a decree on the complaint, protest drew up in accordance with

Section 2049. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, a written or electronic document. 
3. The decree with regard complaint, protest to the decree on a case, prescription shall be issued or sent to a person in respect of whom the decree on a case was issued, or him (her) representative drawn up the prescription, to an injured party in case of filing of the complaint by him (her), to a prosecutor that lodged a protest, within the term up to three days after its issuance.
4. The decree of a superior body (civil servant) with regard to complaint, protest to the decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, may be appealed, protested within ten days from the date of delivery or receive of the decree to a court in the manner provided by Chapter 44-1 of this Code.

Section 2050. Original section/article: 826-5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Repeal or change of a decree on a case on administrative infraction or repeal of prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Decision on repeal of a decree, the prescription and termination of a case shall be adopted in presence of circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, as well as upon unprovenness of the circumstances, on the grounds of which the decree is issued the prescription is drawn up.
Repeal or amendment of the decree on the case on administrative infraction, or repeal of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine as well as carrying out on the grounds provided in Articles 841, 842, 843, 844 and 845 of this Code.
Chapter 44. APPEAL OF ACTIONS (OMISSION) AND DECISIONS OF A BODY (CIVIL SERVANT), CARRYING OUT THE ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION PROCEEDING 
Footnote. Title of Chapter 44 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2051. Original section/article: 827. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for filing a complaint
1. A person whose rights and freedoms are directly affected by the action (inaction) and (or) decision of an authority (official) exercising jurisdiction in an administrative offence case, may lodge a complaint with a higher authority (official) and/or a court regarding a violation of the law on the drawing up of a report on an administrative offence in the event that it contains information that does not correspond to the actual facts and circumstances, the application of measures to ensure the proceedings in the case, the appointment and conduct of expert examinations, other actions (omissions) and the adoption of decisions, with the exception of decisions adopted following the consideration of an administrative offence case and following a complaint (appeal) against a ruling in an administrative offence case. Preliminary appeal to a higher authority (official) shall not be a prerequisite for filing a complaint with a court and its acceptance by the court for consideration and resolution on its merits.
2. Complaints shall be filed to a body (civil servant) court, whose actions (omission) and decisions are appealed, that shall be obliged directed complaints within three days from its receipt to superior body (civil servant), relevant court. 
Complaints may be filed directly to a superior body (civil servant), court, that are authorized to consider them.
3. Complaints may be oral and written. Oral complaints shall be entered in a protocol which shall be signed by an applicant and civil servant that accepted the complaint. Oral complaints set out by persons at reception of the relevant civil servants shall be solved on a common basis with the complaints represented in written form. The complaint may be accompanied by additional materials.
4. The person that does not speak the language in which the proceeding on a case is conducted, shall be ensured by the right to file a complaint in native language or language that he (she) can speak.
5. The person that filed a complaint shall have the right to withdraw it. The person in respect of whom a case is initiated, injured party shall have the right to withdraw a complaint of own defence attorney, representative, except for legal representative. The complaint filed in behalf of a person in respect of whom a case is initiated may be withdrawn only with their written consent. Withdrawal of a complaint shall not preclude its repeated filing.
6. Filing of a complaint shall not suspend proceeding of appealed action and execution of appealed decision.
7. In case of filing a written application on withdrawal the complaint to action (omission) of civil servant carrying out an administrative infraction proceeding on a case, ruling on returning of a complaint shall be issued by a court.
8. Where a decision is made in an administrative offence case, complaints against the actions (omissions) and decisions of the official conducting the proceedings, the judge or the body (official) shall be left without consideration and a ruling shall be made to return the complaint.
Footnote.

Section 2052. Original section/article: 827. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2053. Original section/article: 828. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Term for filing a complaint
1. The person shall have the right to refer to superior body (civil servant) and (or) to court with a complaint within two months from the date when he (she) became known on violation of his (her) rights, freedoms and legal interests.
2. Omission of the term for filing of a complaint shall not be the ground for refusal in acceptance of the complaint. The reasons for omission of the term shall be clarified upon consideration of a complaint in essence and may be one of the grounds for refusal in satisfying the complaint.

Section 2054. Original section/article: 829. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for consideration of a complaint
1. When considering a complaint, the judge or body (official) shall comprehensively examine the arguments set out therein, request additional materials if needed, and obtain explanations from the relevant officials, individuals, and legal entities regarding the actions (inaction) and decisions being appealed.
A complaint filed at the time of hearing an administrative offence case shall be transferred to another judge, to the body (official) in whose jurisdiction the case is pending, for joint consideration, and a ruling shall be issued to that effect.
2. The complaint shall be subject to consideration within ten days from the date of acceptance. The term of consideration of a complaint may be extended upon necessity up to ten days. Non-appearance of notified person in a proper manner is not preclusion for consideration of a complaint.
The decision on refusal to satisfy the complaint shall be subject to appeal within ten days from the date of receipt of a copy of the decision of the body (an official) in a specialized district and equivalent court for administrative infractions, the decision of which can be appealed to a superior court, and the court decision - to a superior court whose decisions shall not be subject to appeal.
The decision to satisfy the complaint may be filed with an appeal by the prosecutor to a specialized district and equivalent court for administrative infractions, against the decision of which an appeal by the prosecutor can be filed with a superior court, and against a court decision - with a superior court.
2-1. The time limit for considering a complaint against the actions (inaction) and decisions of the body (official) conducting proceedings in an administrative offence case may be suspended in cases of force majeure preventing further proceedings in the case.
3. The decree shall be delivered to an individual or representative of legal entity without delay, and in case of absence of these persons – shall be delivered to them within three days from the date of issuance of the decree.
4. The body (civil servant) or judge considering a complaint, shall be obliged to take measures within the competence without delay to restore violated rights and legal interests of participants of the administrative infraction proceeding, as well as other persons.
Footnote.

Section 2055. Original section/article: 829. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 44-1. CONSIDERATION OF CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS BY COURTS, APPEAL, 
PROTEST DECREES ON CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS, PRESCRIPTION ON NECESSITY TO PAY A FINE, 
DECREES OF SUPERIOR BODY (CIVIL SERVANT) ON COMPLAINT, PROTEST IN COURTS
Footnote. Code as amended by Chapter 44-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2056. Original section/article: 829-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Place of consideration of a case on administrative infraction by court
1. The case on administrative infraction shall be considered at the place of its commission. Upon petition of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, the case may be considered at the place of residence of this person.
2. Cases on administrative infraction stipulated by Articles 333, 334, 571, 572, 590, 591, 592, 593, 594, 595, 596, 597, 598, 599, 600, 601, 602, 603, 606, 607, 608, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618, 619, 620, 621, 622, 623, 624-1, 625, 626, 627, 628, 630, 631 and 632 of this Code may also be considered at the place of registration of vehicles, ships, including small ships, or at the place of residence of a person in relation to whom proceedings on a case on administrative infraction shall be administered.
3. The cases on administrative infractions provided by Articles 378, 379, 382, 383, 440 and 481 of this Code shall be considered at the place of their commission or at the place of residence of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted.
Footnote.

Section 2057. Original section/article: 829-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 295-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2058. Original section/article: 829-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Right to appeal, protest a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. Decree on a case on administrative infraction the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, the decree may be appealed by persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747, 748 and 753 of this Code, as well as may be protested by a prosecutor in a superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest.
2. A complaint, an appeal of the prosecutor to a superior court may be filed against a court decision on the imposition of an administrative penalty.
3. Decree on a case of the fact of contempt of court issued by a judge (court) in the procedure of part four of

Section 2059. Original section/article: 829-10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code may be appealed, protested in a court of superior instance.
4. A complaint, an appeal of the prosecutor may be filed against a decision issued by a body (official) in a case on an administrative infraction, an order on the need to pay a fine, to a specialized district court and an equivalent court for administrative infractions and a juvenile court at the location of the body (official). 
5. Preliminary referral of persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747 and 748 of this Code to a superior body (civil servant) is not compulsory condition for filing a complaint in court and its acceptance by the court for consideration and solution in essence.
Footnote.

Section 2060. Original section/article: 829-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 2061. Original section/article: 829-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for appeal, protest of decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decrees of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest 
1. Complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest shall be directed to a body (civil servant) that issued the decree on a case, drawn up the prescription, that within three days from the date of receipt of the complaint, protest shall be obliged to direct them with all case materials to the relevant court.
2. In case of appeal, protest of a decree on a case of the fact of contempt of court in accordance with a part two of

Section 2062. Original section/article: 830. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the court shall enclose the decree by an extract from the protocol of court session in a part of establishment of the fact.
3. The complaint may be filed, and the protest may be entered directly in a court, that is authorized to consider them, at the place of residence of a person or his location.
4. The complaint, protest of a decree of a judge on imposition of sanction in the form of administrative arrest shall be subject to direction to a superior court on a date of receipt of the complaint, protest.
5. If consideration of a complaint, protest does not relate to the competence of a judge to whom a decree on a case on administrative infraction, a prescription on necessity to pay a fine, a decree of superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest are appealed, protested, the complaint, protest shall be directed according to jurisdiction.
6. Complaint being filed to the superior body (civil servant) shall include details and confirm the requirements provided by

Section 2063. Original section/article: 829-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms for appeal, protest of a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decrees of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. The complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest shall be filed within ten days from the date of delivery of a copy of decree, and in case if the persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747, 748 and 753 of this Code did not participate in consideration of the case – from the date of its receipt.
Complaint, protest to a prescription on necessity to pay a fine may be filed within ten days upon expiration of the term provided by

Section 2064. Original section/article: 817. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. A complaint, a protest against a decision on an administrative offense case made in connection with non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of a tax obligation established by the Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or obligations provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of pension provision and compulsory social insurance identified by the results of a tax audit, may be filed within thirty days from the date of delivery or receipt of a copy of the resolution.
3. Omission of the term for filing of a complaint, protest shall not be the ground for refusal in acceptance of the complaint, protest. The complaint, protest are considered, the reasons for omission of the term shall be clarified upon consideration of a complaint, protest.
4. Filing of a complaint, protest within established term of this Article shall suspend the execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, a prescription on necessity to pay a fine until issuance of the decision on the complaint, the protest.
5. The Court shall have the right to suspend the execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction for a period of consideration of a case on administrative infraction.
6. The complaint may be filed, the protest lodged to the side aggravating position of a person brought to administrative liability, or a person in respect of whom the administrative proceeding is terminated, shall be admitted within a year from the date of entering of decree on a case of administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest into legal force.
Footnote.

Section 2065. Original section/article: 829-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 227-VII (effective from 01.07.2023).

Section 2066. Original section/article: 829-5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms for consideration of a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body 
1. Cases on administrative infraction, claim, opposition to judgement on the case of an administrative infraction, order for payment of penalty, order of a superior authority (executive officer) on a claim, opposition, shall be considered within fifteen days after the court authorized to consider the case have received the protocol on administrative infraction, claim, opposition and other case materials.
2. A case on administrative infraction may be considered immediately in case of receipt of respective requests from a person in relation to whom proceedings shall be administered, and from complainant. In case of receipt of requests from parties of proceedings on administrative infraction or, where necessary, additional identification of circumstance of the case, time for consideration of the case, claim, opposition may be extended but no more for than fifteen days.
3. Case concerning an administrative offence punishable by administrative arrest and administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as on violations of the state of emergency, shall be heard on the day of receipt of the administrative offence report and other case materials, and in respect of persons subject to administrative detention, no later than twenty-four hours from the time of their detention.
If the person bringing to liability, endured administrative arrest the complaint, protest on decree of administrative arrest, shall be subject to consideration within a day from the date of filing a complaint or protest.
4. The court shall be obliged to suspend the term for consideration of a complaint, protest upon impossibility of its consideration until solution of another case considered in a civil, criminal, administrative judicial proceeding or proceeding on administrative infractions, as well as in case of appeal of the results of tax and (or) custom inspections, on the ground of which initiated a case on administrative infraction to superior body, or expiration of term for appeal a decision of body (official), considering a complaint of a person, in respect of whom a case on administrative infraction is initiated.
The time limit for hearing a case, complaint or protest may be suspended in cases where an expert examination is appointed, a person is brought before the court, or there are circumstances of force majeure temporarily preventing further proceedings in the case.
Footnote.

Section 2067. Original section/article: 829-5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2068. Original section/article: 829-6. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Preparation to consideration of a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. Upon preparation to consideration of a complaint, protest, the judge shall clarify the following issues:
1) if the consideration of this case, complaint, protest are related to their competence;
2) are there the circumstances excluding the possibility of considering this case, complaint, protest by a judge;
3) are the protocol on administrative infraction and the other protocols provided by this Code drawn up in a proper manner, as well as other case materials;
4) are there the circumstances excluding the proceeding on a case, as well as circumstances that allow not to bring a person to administrative liability;
5) are there petitions, including on cases with participation of a minor person on consideration of a case in court at the place of residence of the minor person and challenges;
6) resolve petitions, demand of necessary additional case materials, on calling of persons whose participation shall recognized necessary for the consideration of a case, complaint, protest, on assignment of examination in case of necessity;
7) are the persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747 and 748 of this Code notified on place and time for consideration of a case.
2. Requirements of subparagraphs 1), 3) and 6) of part one of this Article shall not be applied to the cases on facts of contempt of court considered in accordance with part three of

Section 2069. Original section/article: 829-7. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances excluding a possibility of considering the case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction by a court, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
The judge may not consider a case, complaint, protest in cases if this person:
1) is a relative of the person bringing to liability, or of injured party, their representatives, defence attorney;
2) is interested in solution of a case in person, directly or indirectly.

Section 2070. Original section/article: 829-8. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Recusation and challenge of a judge
1. In existence of circumstances provided by

Section 2071. Original section/article: 829-7. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the judge shall be obliged to apply on recusation.
2. In existence of circumstances provided by

Section 2072. Original section/article: 829-7. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is conducted, injured party, legal representatives of an individual and representatives of legal entity, defence attorney, prosecutor shall have the right to challenge a judge.
3. Applications of recusation, challenge shall be filed to a chairman of the relevant court.
4. Applications on recusation, challenge shall be considered by a chairman of court within a day from the date of receipt.
5. Following the results of consideration of applications on recusation, challenge, the ruling on satisfying the applications or on refusal from their satisfaction shall be issued.

Section 2073. Original section/article: 829-9. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Decision of a judge, adopted upon preparation to consideration of a case on administrative infraction complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. The judge upon preparation to consideration of a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest shall adopt the relevant decision:
1) on appointment of time and place for consideration of a case, complaint, protest;
2) on calling of persons, demand of necessary additional case materials, on assignment of examination in case of necessity;
3) on postponement of consideration of a case, complaint, protest;
4) on extension, suspension of terms for consideration of the case, complaint, protest;
5) on transfer of a protocol on administrative infraction and other case materials, complaint, protest for consideration according to jurisdiction, if the consideration of this case, complaint, protest do not relate to its competence;
6) on transfer of a case for consideration in essence in accordance with

Section 2074. Original section/article: 812. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
7) on transfer of a case for consideration to a court, authorized to impose a sanction of other type or amount for the administrative infraction, as well as on transfer of a case for consideration at the place of registration of transport vehicles (vessels including small size vessels) in cases provided by

Section 2075. Original section/article: 812. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code
2. Decisions provided by a part one of this Article shall be issued in the form of ruling and contain information provided by a part one of this

Section 2076. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, with the exception of term and procedure for appeal.
3. Upon establishment that there are two and more cases initiated in respect of one and the same person, the judge shall have the right to consolidate these cases in one proceeding for joint consideration.
4. Upon preparation to repeated consideration of a case on administrative infraction due to non-appearance of a person bringing to liability, his (her) representative, witness without reasonable excuses in cases provided by a part four of

Section 2077. Original section/article: 754. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the judge shall have the right to issue a ruling on bringing of mentioned persons.

Section 2078. Original section/article: 829-10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for consideration of a case on administrative infraction complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. Upon beginning of consideration of a case, complaint, protest, the judge shall:
1) declare who considers a case, which case, complaint, protest, are subject to consideration, who and on the basis of which Article of this Code is brought to liability, determine the language of proceeding;
2) be satisfied in appearance of a person or his (her) representative bringing to administrative liability, as well as other persons participating in consideration of a case, complaint, protest;
3) establish identity of participants of the proceeding and check the powers of legal representatives of persons, defense attorney;
4) clarify the reasons of non-appearance of participants of the proceeding on a case and adopt decision on consideration of a case, complaint, protest, in the absence of mentioned persons or on postponement of consideration of the case, complaint, protest;
5) issue a ruling in necessary cases on bringing of a person the participation of which is compulsory during consideration of a case, complaint, protest shall appoint an interpreter;
6) explain the rights and obligations to the persons participating in consideration of a case, provided by this Code including the right to receive a gratuitous legal assistance on account of the funds of state budget;
7) permit the challenges and filed petitions;
8) announce a protocol on administrative infraction, complaint, protest, and in case of necessity – other case materials;
9) hear explanations of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted, testimony of other persons participating in the proceeding, clarifications of a specialist and opinion of an expert, shall examine the other evidences, and in case of participation of a prosecutor in consideration of the case, complaint, protest, shall hear his (her) opinion;
10) issue a ruling on postponement of consideration of a case, complaint, protest, due to: application on recusation or challenge of a judge in case if his (her) challenge precludes consideration of the case, complaint, protest, in essence; challenge of a defence attorney, authorized representative, expert or interpreter, if the mentioned challenge precludes consideration of the case, complaint, protest, in essence; necessity of appearance of the persons participating in consideration of the case, complaint, protest, or demand of additional case materials, complaint, protest, as well as in cases provided by part two of

Section 2079. Original section/article: 51. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. In case of necessity, the judge shall issue a ruling on assignment of examination;
11) issue a ruling on extension, suspension of terms of consideration a case, complaint, protest;
12) issue a ruling on transfer of a case for consideration in essence in cases provided by

Section 2080. Original section/article: 829-9. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. When hearing a case, complaint or protest, the legality and validity of the initiation of administrative proceedings and the decisions rendered based on the materials available in the case file and any additional materials submitted shall be verified, and a decision shall be made on the grounds of the complaint filed pursuant to paragraph two of part one of

Section 2081. Original section/article: 829. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
The court shall not be bound by the arguments and circumstances of the case, the complaint or the protest, and shall examine the case in its entirety, while having the right to establish new facts and examine new evidence. 
When hearing a case, complaint or protest, the court may change the legal classification of an act only within the limits of the article or part of the article of the Special Part of

Section 2082. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code under which the administrative proceedings have been initiated. The classification of an act may be changed only if this improves the position of the person brought to administrative responsibility.
3. The court shall be obliged to suspend the term for consideration of a complaint, an appellate petition of a prosecutor upon impossibility of its consideration until solution of another case considered in a civil, criminal or administrative judicial proceeding. Upon extension and (or) suspension of a term, the reasoned ruling shall be issued.
4. Upon establishment of the fact of contempt of court from the side of a person attending the process directly in the course of judicial proceeding, the presiding judge shall have the right to issue a decree after declaring the fact on imposition of administrative sanction on a guilty person provided by

Section 2083. Original section/article: 653. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code without compliance with the requirements of subparagraphs 2), 4), 8) and 12) of part one of this Article. 
5. The case on the fact of contempt of court from the side of person attending the process established in the course of judicial proceeding shall be considered by a judge (court) directly at the same court session with establishment and recording of this fact in a protocol of a court session.
6. In case of participation of a civil servant that initiated a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest, in consideration of the case, or a chairman of the state body whose representatives have the right to initiated cases on administrative infractions, to consider a complaint, protest to a decree on a case on administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, they first shall represent explanations in essence of an infraction and evidences of guiltiness of a person in its commission.
7. In necessary cases, the other procedural actions provided by this Code shall be carried out.
Footnote.

Section 2084. Original section/article: 829-10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2085. Original section/article: 829-11. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Circumstances subjected to clarification upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction complaint, 
protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, 
decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. Upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest, the judge shall be obliged to clarify if the administrative infraction was committed, if this person is guilty of its commission, if it is subjected to administrative liability, are there any circumstances mitigating or aggravating administrative liability, if the material damage is inflicted, circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, are the protocol on administrative infraction and the other protocols provided by this Code drawn up in a proper manner, as well as other case materials, are there the circumstances excluding the proceeding on a case, as well as circumstances that allow not to bring a person to administrative liability, as well as to clarify other circumstances having significance for a proper solution of a case.
2. Upon establishment of circumstances provided by part one of this Article, the judge shall have the right to reduce a sum of administrative fine imposed on a person in respect of whom the case on administrative infraction is initiated, and calculated according to the first paragraph of part one of

Section 2086. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, but no more than thirty percent of total fine amount.

Section 2087. Original section/article: 829-12. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Protocol of a court session
1. Upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction, the protocol shall be kept in a court session. If the person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, makes full admission of his (her) guiltiness upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction, does not apply on necessity to examine evidences, the keeping of a protocol is not mandatory. By this, upon consideration of a case according to the rules provided for the court of first instance, the court of superior instances shall keep the protocol of a court session in cases of necessity of examining additional materials having significance for a proper solution of the case, received expert opinions, of interrogation of the persons summoned at session, as well as at own initiative or upon petition of a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted.
2. The protocol of a court session shall contain:
1) place and date of a session, time of its beginning and completion;
2) details of a person in respect of whom the case is considered: for individuals – last name, first name, patronymic (when available), date of birth, place of residence, name and requisite elements of a document certifying identity, identification number, details on registration at the place of residence, place of work; for legal entities – name, legal organizational form, location, number and date of the state registration as a legal entity, identification number and bank details;
3) language of a proceeding on a considered case;
4) event of a considered case on administrative infraction;
5) position, last name, initials of a judge, secretary of a court cession;
6) details on appearance of persons participating in consideration of a case, on notifying absent persons in established manner;
7) the course of a court session;
8) challenges, petitions and results of their consideration;
9) explanation of the rights and obligations to participants on a case on administrative infraction proceeding;
10) content of explanations, questions and answers, speeches of participants of a court session;
11) considered materials and documents;
12) indication to rulings, decrees issued in the course of a court session, court decision on a case on administrative infraction, explanation of the term and procedure for its appealing;
13) familiarization with a protocol of a court session and explanation of the term for filing remarks on it;
14) information on the postponement or extension of the consideration of a case, complaint or protest.
3. The protocol shall be drawn up, signed by a judge and secretary of a court session no later than five days from the date of consideration of the case.
4. The judge shall be obliged to ensure a possibility to familiarize with a protocol of a court session to a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, to other participants of the administrative infraction proceeding.
5. The participants of the administrative infraction proceeding shall have the right to represent own remarks in respect of fullness and credibility of drawing up the protocol of a court session within five days after its signing.
6. Remarks on the protocol of a court session shall be considered by a judge within five days from the date of their filing.
7. The judge shall issue a reasoned decree on acceptance or denying of remarks on the protocol of a court session. The decree and remarks on the protocol of a court session shall be attached to the protocol of a court session.
Footnote.

Section 2088. Original section/article: 829-12. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2089. Original section/article: 829-13. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Fixing of court session by audio, video recording means
1. Fixing the course of a court session is carried out by audio, video recording means. Fixing of a court session means of audio, video recording shall be carried out by secretary of a court session.
Fixation of a court session by audio, video recording means shall not be carried out in cases of technically faulty equipment, its absence or impossibility of its application on technical reasons. The impossibility of using audio, video recording does not exclude the continuation of a court session.
The secretary of a court session, in case of impossibility of using audio, video recording means, shall reported this to a court with a mandatory reflection of the reasons for not using audio, video recording in a protocol of a court session.
2. In case of fixing consideration of a case with the using by means of audio, video recording, the secretary of a court session shall draw up a brief protocol in written form.
The brief protocol of the court session shall contain:
1) place and date of a session, time of its beginning and completion;
2) details of a person in respect of whom the case is considered: for individuals – last name, first name, patronymic (when available), date of birth, place of residence, name and requisite elements of a document certifying identity, identification number, details on registration at the place of residence, place of work; for legal entities – name, legal organizational form, location, number and date of the state registration as a legal entity, identification number and bank details;
3) position, last name, initials of a judge, secretary of a court cession;
4) details on application of audio, video recording means by court;
5) name of a file containing audio, video recording;
6) details on appearance of persons participating in consideration of a case, on notifying absent persons in established manner;
7) indication to rulings, decrees issued in the course of a court session, court decision on a case on administrative infraction, explanation of the term and procedure for its appealing;
8) considered materials and documents;
9) familiarization with audio, video recording, a protocol of a court session and clarification of the term for filing remarks on it.
The court's decision to adjourn the hearing or extend the time limit for hearing the case shall be recorded in the summary minutes of the hearing.
A brief protocol shall be drawn up, signed by a judge and secretary of a court session no later than three days from the date of consideration of the case.
The material carrier containing audio, video recording, and a brief protocol of the court session shall be attached to the case materials.
3. The judge shall be obliged to ensure a possibility to familiarize with audio, video recording, a brief protocol of the court session provide comments on the completeness and reliability of the compilation audio, video recording, protocol of the court session to a person in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, to other participants of the administrative infraction proceeding within three days after its signing.
4. Remarks on audio, video recording and brief protocol of the court session shall be considered by a judge in the manner established by parts six and seven of

Section 2090. Original section/article: 829-12. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
5. Audio, video recording of the court sessions shall be used for the purposes of judicial proceedings for accurately fixing the course of the court trial only, as well as for establishing factual data in civil, criminal, judicial proceeding, on cases of administrative infractions proceeding or in disciplinary case proceedings.
The procedure for the technical use of audio, video recording means that ensure the fixing the course of court session, the storage and destruction of audio, video recordings, as well as access to audio, video recordings shall be determined by the body that carried out organizational and material and engineering ensure activities of the courts, taking into account the requirements of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2091. Original section/article: 829-13. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by Laws of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2092. Original section/article: 829-14. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Decisions, adopted based on the results of consideration of a case on administrative infraction complaint, protest on a decree on a case of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. After consideration of a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest, the judge, shall issue one of the following decrees:
1) on imposition of administrative sanction;
2) on termination of the proceeding on a case;
3) on leaving the decree, prescription unchanged, and the complaint, protest – without satisfaction;
4) on change of the decree;
5) on repeal of the decree, prescription and termination of a case;
6) on repeal of the decree, prescription and issuance of new decree on a case.
2. Decree provided by this Article shall be lawful and reasoned.
If upon solution of an issue on imposition of sanction for administrative infraction, the judge decides the issue on compensation of property damage by a guilty person, the decree shall contain the extent of damage subjected to recovery, term and procedure for its compensation.
A court ruling on the expulsion of a foreign national or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan shall specify the period within which the foreign national or stateless person must leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
A court ruling on the expulsion of a foreign national or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan may be appealed and reviewed by a higher court upon appeal by the prosecutor under the procedure set forth in Chapter 45 of this Code.
3. Decree shall contain details, also issues shall be solved provided by

Section 2093. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
4. After recognition of a legal evaluation of illegal acts as incorrect in results of consideration of a case, the judge shall be obliged to change classification of an infraction to Article of the Law providing less severe administrative sanction.
5. Upon referral of a driver of a transport vehicle to pass the exam for testing of knowledge of the road traffic rules, the decree on referral for testing of knowledge of the road traffic rules, the copy of which is issued to a person referred to pass the exam, shall be issued.
6. Upon referral of a owner and (or) user of civil and service weapons to pass the exam for testing knowledge of civil and service weapon safe handling rules, the decree on referral for testing of knowledge of the safe handling rules of civil and service weapons, shall be issued the copy of which shall be issued to a person referred to pass the exam.
6-1. Judgement based on

Section 2094. Original section/article: 54. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code may establish special requirements for behavior of an offender.
7. Decree on termination of the proceeding on a case shall be issued in the cases of:
1) existence of circumstances excluding the proceeding on a case provided by

Section 2095. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) existence of circumstances that allow not to bring to administrative liability provided by

Section 2096. Original section/article: 742. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) transfer of case materials to the relevant bodies for solution of the issue on bringing of a person to disciplinary liability in accordance with

Section 2097. Original section/article: 32. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
8. Decree issued by the results of considering a case, complaint, protest shall be drawn up in written and shall be signed by a judge that issued the decree or electronic document certified by electronic digital signature of a judge that issued the decree.
Footnote.

Section 2098. Original section/article: 829-14. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2099. Original section/article: 829-15. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Repeal or change of a decree on a case on administrative infraction, complaint, protest, decree of superior body on complaint, protest or repeal of a prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Decision on repeal of a decree, prescription, a decree on complaint, a protest and termination of a case shall be adopted upon presence of circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, and also upon unprovedness of circumstances, on the ground of which the decree was issued, the prescription is drawn up.
Repeal or change of decree on a case on administrative infraction, decree on a complaint, a protest or repeal of the prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall carrying out on the grounds provided by Articles, 840, 841, 842, 843, 844 and 845 of this Code.

Section 2100. Original section/article: 829-16. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Announcement of a decree based on the results of consideration of a case on administrative infraction, on complaint, protest to decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest
1. Decree of a judge based on the results of consideration of a case on administrative infraction, on complaint, protest to decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on complaint, protest shall be announced immediately after its issuance.
1-1. After announcing the ruling, the judge shall clarify the legal consequences of its adoption, the procedure and time limits for appealing the ruling, and shall declare the court session closed.
2. Decree of a judge shall be issued or sent to the person in respect of whom the decree on a case, on a complaint, on protest was issued, to an injured party in case of filing of the complaint by him (her), on upon his (her) request, to a prosecutor that lodged a protest, within the term up to three days after its issuance.
In case of a decree on administrative arrest issuance, the decree shall be directed immediately to a prosecutor.
3. The decree of a judge with regard to complaint, protest to the decree on a case on administrative arrest shall be brought to the notice of a body (civil servant) executing the decree, as well as of a person in respect of whom it is issued – on a date of issuance of the decree.
4. On cases on administrative infractions, provided by Articles статьями 484 и 485 of this Code, in respect of the person whom firearms and ammunition have been entrusted in connection with performance of official duties or given for temporary use by an enterprise, a copy of a decree shall be directed to the relevant enterprise. 
5. The decree of a judge may be appealed, protested in the superior court in order provided by Chapter 45 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2101. Original section/article: 829-16. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2102. Original section/article: 829-17. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Determination on a case on administrative infraction issued by a judge
Determination on a case on administrative infraction shall contain details provided by a part one of

Section 2103. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, with the exception of terms of voluntary payment of a fine or execution of other type of administrative sanction.

Section 2104. Original section/article: 829-18. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Correction of slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors by judge 
1. The judge, that issued a decree on a case on administrative infraction, upon application of participants of the proceeding on a case, officer of justice, body (civil servant) executing the decree on a case on administrative infraction, or at own initiative, shall have the right to correct slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors made in a decree without change of content of the decree.
2. Consideration of an application on correction of slips, clerical mistakes and arithmetic errors shall be carried out within three days from the date of receipt of the application.
3. Correction of a slip, clerical mistake or arithmetic error shall be carried out in the form of a ruling.
4. Copy of a ruling shall be directed to participants of a proceeding on a case, officer of justice, body (civil servant) executing decrees, as well as to body (civil servant) that drew up a protocol on administrative infraction within three days from the date of its issuance.

Section 2105. Original section/article: 829-19. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Private decree
1. Upon detection of cases of violation of legality, as well as establishment of the reasons and conditions promoting commission of administrative infractions, the judge shall issue a private decree, shall make a submission to the relevant organization and civil servants on taking of measures on their elimination.
Private decree of court may be appealed, protested within ten days from the date of its receipt in a superior court, the decision of which is not subject to appeal, protest.
2. Heads of organizations and other civil servants shall be obliged to consider a private decree within a month from the date of its receipt and inform a judge that issued the private decree on taken measures.
Chapter 45. REVIEW OF DECREES OF JUDGES THAT DID NOT ENTER INTO LEGAL FORCE UNDER APPEAL PROCEDURE 
Footnote. Title of Chapter 45 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2106. Original section/article: 830. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Right to appeal, bringing an appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a judge 
1. Decree of a judge of specialized district and equated administrative court and juvenile court on imposition of administrative sanction may be appealed by persons indicated in Articles 744 , 745 , 746 , 747 , 748 and 753 of this Code, in a superior court as well as reviewed on appellate petition of the prosecutor.
2. Decree on a case of the fact of contempt of judge issued by a judge in the procedure of part four of

Section 2107. Original section/article: 829-10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code a complaint, an appellate petition of the prosecutor can be filled in a court of superior instance. 
Footnote.

Section 2108. Original section/article: 830. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 2109. Original section/article: 831. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for appeal, review on an appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a judge 
Footnote. Title of

Section 2110. Original section/article: 831. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Complaint, appellate petition of the prosecutor to a decree of a judge shall be directed to a judge that issued the decree, that within three days from the date of receipt of the complaint, the appellate petition of the prosecutor shall be obliged to direct them with all case materials to superior body court.
2. In case of appeal, bringing an appellate petition of the prosecutor to a decree on a case of the fact of contempt of court in accordance with a part two of

Section 2111. Original section/article: 830. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the court shall enclose the decree by an extract from the protocol of court session in a part of establishment of the fact.
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
4. The complaint, protest of a decree of a judge on imposition of sanction in the form of administrative arrest shall be subject to direction to a superior court on a date of receipt of the complaint, protest.
5. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 2112. Original section/article: 831. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2113. Original section/article: 832. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Term for appeal, bringing an appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a judge 
1. Complaint, appellate petition of the prosecutor to a decree of a judge may be filed within ten days from the date of delivery of decree, and in case if the persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747, 748 and 753 of this Code did not participate in consideration of the case – from the date of its receipt.
2. A complaint may be lodged and an appeal may be filed by a prosecutor, resulting in an improvement in the situation of a person subject to administrative liability, within the period of time during which the person is considered to be subject to administrative penalties. The time limits and their significance for the proper resolution of the case shall be verified by the court regardless of the content of the complaint or the prosecutor's appeal.
3. The complaint, appellate petition of the prosecutor may be filed, to the side aggravating position of a person brought to administrative liability, or a person in respect of whom the administrative proceeding is terminated, shall be admitted within a year from the date of entering of decree on a case of administrative infraction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine, decree of superior body (civil servant) on the complaint, protest into legal force.
Footnote.

Section 2114. Original section/article: 832. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall take effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2115. Original section/article: 833. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Content of a complaint, an appellate petition of a prosecutor
1. The complaint shall be filed, the appellate petition of a prosecutor shall be brought in written form or electronic document, certified with electronic digital signature and it shall contain:
1) name of a court, superior body to which the complaint is filed, the appellate petition of a prosecutor is brought;
2) last name, first name and patronymic (when available) (precise name of a legal entity), place of permanent residence or location (mail address) of an applicant of complaint, prosecutor that issued appellate petition;
3) name of a court to a decree of whom the complaint is filed, the appellate petition is brought;
4) content of appealed or reviewed the decree on appellate petition of a prosecutor, as well as the reasons by which the applicant of complaint, prosecutor that issued appellate petition, considers the decree of court violating his (her) rights and freedoms;
5) clearly worded petition of an applicant of complaint, claim of a person, prosecutor that issued appellate petition.
2. The complaint, the appellate petition shall be signed by persons mentioned in Articles 744, 745, 746, 747 and 748 of this Code as well as by prosecutor. The complaint being filed in behalf of a legal entity shall be signed by his (her) representative or other authorized person.
3. If the complaint is filed, the appellate petition of a prosecutor is brought in behalf of another person, the first name and last name, place of permanent residence or location (mail address) of a person in behalf of whom the complaint or protest is filed, shall be stated in there. The complaint shall be accompanied by a document certifying the powers.
4. The complaint shall be filed, the appellate petition of a prosecutor shall be brought in two copies accompanied by copy of appealed or reviewed decree of court, as well as other documents for substantiation of the arguments raised in the complaint or the appellate petition of reasons.
5. In case, if delivered complaint or the appellate petition of a prosecutor do not conform to the requirements provided by a part one and two of this Article, they shall be considered as delivered, but shall be returned with specification of the term for completion. If within the specified term, the complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor are not represented in court, after repeated lodging, they shall be considered unfiled.
Footnote.

Section 2116. Original section/article: 833. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2117. Original section/article: 834. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension of execution of a decree due to filing of a complaint or bringing an appellate petition of a prosecutor
Footnote. Title of

Section 2118. Original section/article: 834. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Filing of a complaint within established term shall suspend the execution of a decree on imposition of administrative infraction until consideration of the complaint.
2. The prosecutor shall have the right to suspend the execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction for a period of monitoring of its legality, give written instructions to authorized civil servants and bodies (except for court) on proceeding of additional monitoring. Based on the results of monitoring, the prosecutor shall bring the appellate petition to the relevant body on repeal or change of the decree or cancel the suspension of execution of the decree.
3. Bringing of an appellate petition by a prosecutor shall suspend the execution of a decree until consideration of the appellate petition.
4. A court ruling on the expulsion of a foreign national or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan in the event of a complaint or appeal by the prosecutor prior to the deadline specified by the court within which the foreign national or stateless person must leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be suspended pending consideration of the complaint or appeal by the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 2119. Original section/article: 834. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2120. Original section/article: 835. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms of consideration of a complain, an appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a judge
Footnote. Title of

Section 2121. Original section/article: 835. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree shall be subject to consideration within ten days from the date of their receipt.
2. The complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree on administrative arrest, if the person brought to liability serves administrative arrest, shall be subject to consideration within one day from the date of filing of the complaint or bringing of the appellate petition.
3. The time limit for reviewing a complaint or appeal by the prosecutor may be suspended in cases where an expert examination is appointed or where force majeure prevents further proceedings in the case.
Where petitions are received from participants in proceedings concerning an administrative offence or where additional clarification of the circumstances of the case is required, the time limit for reviewing a complaint or appeal by the prosecutor may be extended by the court hearing the case, but not for more than ten days. The court shall suspend proceedings on the complaint or appeal by the prosecutor if it is impossible to consider it prior to the resolution of another case being considered in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings. The decision to extend and/or suspend the term shall be made in the form of a reasoned ruling.
Footnote.

Section 2122. Original section/article: 835. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2123. Original section/article: 836. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Sole consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court by judge
1. The complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of the court shall be considered at sole discretion by a judge of superior court.
2. The complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of court on a case of the fact of contempt of court issued by a judge (court) in the manner provided by a part four of

Section 2124. Original section/article: 829-10. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall be considered at sole discretion by a judge of superior court.
Footnote.

Section 2125. Original section/article: 836. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 2126. Original section/article: 837. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Preparation to consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court
Upon preparation to consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor, the court shall: permit petitions, demand additional materials, summon persons the participation of which is recognized necessary for consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor; the judge shall assign examination in case of necessity.
Footnote.

Section 2127. Original section/article: 837. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2128. Original section/article: 838. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court
1. The judge after beginning of considering a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a judge, shall:
1) announce, who considers a complaint, appellate petition; which complaint, appellate petition is subject to consideration; who filed the complaint, brought the appellate petition; 
2) be ascertain in attendance of an individual or representative of legal entity in respect of whom the decree on a case is issued, as well as persons summoned for participation in consideration of a complaint, appellate petition;
3) verify the powers of participants of a proceeding and their legal representatives;
4) clarify the reasons of non-appearance of participants of the proceeding on a case and adopt decision on consideration of a complaint, appellate petition in their absence or on postponement of consideration of the complaint, appellate petition; 
5) explain the rights and obligations to the persons participating in consideration of a complaint, appellate petition;
6) solve challenges and filed petitions;
7) read a complaint and petition to a decree, and other case materials in case of necessity.
2. Upon consideration of a complaint, appellate petition to a decree of a court, the legality and substantiation of the issued decree shall be verified according to available and additionally represented materials. The judge is not linked with arguments of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor and shall verify the case in a full measure, by this, they shall have the right to establish new facts and examine new evidences.
3. The judge shall have the right to postpone consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor due to non-attendance of summoned persons, demand of additional case materials, assignment of examination and in other cases when it is necessary for full, comprehensive and objective consideration of the complaint, appellate petition.
Footnote.

Section 2129. Original section/article: 838. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2130. Original section/article: 839. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Solution of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court 
1. After consideration of a complain, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court, the judge shall adopt one of the following decisions:
1) on leaving the decree unchanged, and the complaints, appellate petition – without satisfaction;
2) on change of the decree;
3) on repeal of the decree and termination of a case in existence of circumstances provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, as well as in case of lack of evidentiary support of evidences on the basis of which the decree was issued;
4) on repeal of the decree and issuance of new decree on a case.
2. Following the results of consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court, the decision shall be announced immediately after its adoption and shall be issued in the form of a decree on the complaint, appellate petition, drew up in accordance with

Section 2131. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3. The decree of a judge issued in appellate procedure may be appealed, protested in the manner provided by chapter 46 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2132. Original section/article: 839. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2133. Original section/article: 840. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Grounds for repeal or change of a decree of a court 
Footnote. Title of

Section 2134. Original section/article: 840. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
The grounds for repeal or change of a decree of a court and issuance of the decree are: 
1) non-conformance of summaries of a judge, on actual circumstances of a case set out in a decree of a court, examined evidences during consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor;
2) incorrect application of the Law on administrative liability;
3) essential violation of the procedural rules of this Code;
4) non-conformance of administrative sanction imposed by the decree to a nature of committed infraction, identity of a guilty person or property status of a legal entity.
Footnote.

Section 2135. Original section/article: 840. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2136. Original section/article: 841. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-conformance of summaries of a judge on actual circumstances of a case set out in a decree of a court, examined evidences during consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor
1. After establishment that the summaries on actual circumstances of a case set out in a decree of a court do not conform to the evidences examined during consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor, the judge shall repeal this decree in full or in part and shall issue new decree in accordance with the results of consideration of the complaint, appellate petition.
2. During evaluation of the evidences examined during consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor, the judge, shall have the right to recognize the facts proved that were not established by a decree of a court or were not taken into account by a judge, that issued the decree.
Footnote.

Section 2137. Original section/article: 841. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2138. Original section/article: 842. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Incorrect application of the Law on administrative liability
1. Incorrect application of the Law on administrative liability is:
1) violation of the requirements of

Section 2139. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
and the Common pat of

Section 2140. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) application of wrong Article or part of Article of the Special part of

Section 2141. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code that were subject to application;
3) imposition of more severe administrative sanction that it is provided by a sanction of the relevant Article of the Special part of

Section 2142. Original section/article: 2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
2. After recognition of a legal evaluation of illegal acts as incorrect in results of consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor, the judge shall have the right to change classification of an infraction to Article of the Law providing less severe administrative sanction.
3. Based on the results of consideration of a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor, the judge shall have the right to change classification of an infraction to Article of the Law providing more severe administrative sanction or impose more severe administrative sanction only in case when on these grounds the complaint was filed by an injured party or appellate petition of a prosecutor was brought.
Footnote.

Section 2143. Original section/article: 842. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2144. Original section/article: 843. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Substantial violation of procedural rules of this Code
1. Substantial violations of procedural rules of this Code are the violations of principles and other general provisions of this Code during proceeding on a case and its consideration by deprivation or impairment of the rights guaranteed by the Law of the persons participating in the case, non-compliance with the procedure for the administrative infraction proceeding or otherwise impeded comprehensive, full and objective examination of circumstances of a case, influenced or might influence on issuance of legal and reasonable decree.
2. The decree shall be subject to repeal when one-sidedness or incompleteness of the proceeding on a case are the result of wrong exclusion of available evidences from examination or unreasonable refusal in examination of evidences that may have a significance for a case; failure to examine evidences subjected to compulsory examination.
3. The decree shall be subject to repeal at least if:
1) in existence of grounds provided by Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, the proceeding on a case was not terminated;
2) The decree issued by a judge, is not authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions;
3) the case is considered without participation of a defence attorney, when his (her) participation is compulsory in accordance with the Law, or the right of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted to have the defence attorney is violated by other means;
4) the right of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted to use native language or language that he (she) can speak, and services of an interpreter is violated;
5) the person in respect of whom the proceeding on a case is conducted is not provided by the right to five explanations on circumstances of a case;
6) the decree is not signed by any of the persons mentioned in a part four of

Section 2145. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. After establishment that upon consideration of a case on administrative infraction the violation of procedural rules mentioned in subparagraph 1) of part three of this Article is committed, the judge, shall repeal the decree and terminate the proceeding on a case.
5. If during the consideration of a case on an administrative infraction any other significant violation of procedural norms was committed, the judge conducts the consideration of the case, taking measures to eliminate the violation, shall cancel the decision of the court, the superior body (an official) and, taking into account the results of the consideration of the case, shall issue a new decree.
Footnote.

Section 2146. Original section/article: 843. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).

Section 2147. Original section/article: 844. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Non-conformance of administrative sanction imposed by a decree to the character of committed infraction, identity of a guilty person or property financial status of a legal entity
1. After recognition of administrative sanction imposed by a decree as unfair due to its excessive severity that does not conform to the character of committed infraction, identity of a guilty person or property status of a legal entity, the judge shall mitigate the sanction being governed by general rules of imposition of the administrative sanction.
2. The judge may impose more severe sanction on a guilty person that was determined by the decree on a case on administrative infraction, but only in the cases when the appellate petition of a prosecutor was brought or when the complaint of an injured party was filed.
Footnote.

Section 2148. Original section/article: 844. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2149. Original section/article: 845. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Repeal or change of a decree on termination of a proceeding on case
1. The decree on termination of a proceeding on case may be repealed by a judge with issuance of the decree on imposition of administrative sanction not otherwise than according to the complaint of an injured party or according to the appellate petition of a prosecutor to inconsistency of termination of the proceeding on case.
2. The decree on termination of the proceeding on case may be changed in a part of the grounds for termination according to the complaint of a person in respect of whom the proceeding on case is terminated.
Footnote.

Section 2150. Original section/article: 845. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2151. Original section/article: 846. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Announcement of a decree on a complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court
1. The decree with regard to complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court shall be announced immediately after its issuance.
2. Copy of the decree with regard complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court shall be issued or sent to an individual or representative of legal entity in respect of which the decree on a case was issued, to an injured party in case of filing of the complaint by him (her), on upon his (her) request, to a prosecutor that brought an appellate petition, within the term up to three days after its issuance.
3. The decree with regard to complaint, appellate petition of a prosecutor to a decree of a court on arrest shall be brought to the notice of a body (civil servant) executing the decree, as well as of a person in respect of whom it is issued – on a date of issuance of the decree.
Footnote.

Section 2152. Original section/article: 846. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 46. REVIEW OF DECREES ENTERED INTO LEGAL FORCE IN CASSATIONAL PROCEDURE
Footnote. Title of Chapter 46 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2153. Original section/article: 847. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Cassational procedure for review of decrees on cases on administrative infractions entered into legal force and decrees based on results of consideration of complaints, protests to them 
Footnote.

Section 2154. Original section/article: 847. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 2155. Original section/article: 848. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure and arguments for evocation of cases and consideration of petitions on lodging of a protest to judicial acts entered into legal force
1. A case concerning an administrative offence may be requested from the relevant court for review in cassation by the president of the court of cassation, as well as by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, their deputies, regional prosecutors and prosecutors of equivalent rank.
2. The grounds for requesting the retrieval of cases shall be the petitions of the persons specified in part four of

Section 2156. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as the initiative of the chairperson of the court of cassation, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the limits of their competence.
3. Request on evocation of a case shall be executed by a court no later than seven days from the date of its receipt in court. The request may be directed written form or electronic document
Upon request for the transfer of an administrative offence case from the prosecutor, the request of the court of cassation for the transfer of the case due to the receipt of a petition shall be executed within thirty days.
4. Cases on administrative infractions shall not be subject to review in cassational procedure, with exception cases provided by part five of

Section 2157. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
5. Legally binding decisions on administrative offences may be reviewed upon the recommendation of the chair of the court of cassation, as well as upon protest by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or their deputy, if there are grounds specified in part five of

Section 2158. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
6. The submission and protest shall be forwarded together with the case file to the court of cassation.
Copies of protest shall be directed to the persons, participating in a case, by prosecutor.
7. In case of evocation of a case, the petition on entering of representation or lodging of a cassational protest shall be subject to consideration within thirty business days from the date of receipt of the case.
8. The petition on entering of representation or lodging of a protest shall be filed in written form or electronic document, certified with electronic digital signature and shall contain:
1) name of a civil servant to whom the petition is addressed;
2) name of a person lodging the petition; his (her) place of residence or location and procedural position in a case;
3) indication to courts considering a case in the first, appeal and cassational instances, and content of decisions adopted by them;
4) indication on judicial act on which the petition is filed;
5) indication:
what serious irreversible consequences for the life and health of people or for the economy and national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan may result from the implementation of the resolution;
what rights and legitimate interests of an indefinite circle of persons or other public interests violate the decree;
how the adopted decree violates uniformity in the interpretation and application by courts, authorized bodies (civil servants) of the law;
6) an indication of what the request of the person filing the petition is.
9. The petition shall be signed by a person filing the petition, or by his (her) representative. The petition signed by a representative shall be accompanied by power of attorney or another document certifying the powers of the representative.
10. The petition shall be subject to return to persons that filed them in case of its non-conformance to requirements of this Article.
11. The person filing the petition shall have the right withdraw it by applying to the court of cassational instance until consideration of a petition.
Footnote.

Section 2159. Original section/article: 848. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.03.2021 № 21-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force on 01.07.2025).

Section 2160. Original section/article: 849. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Lodging of a protest, filing of complaint to decrees on cases on administrative infractions and decrees on results of consideration of the complaint, protest to them
Footnote.

Section 2161. Original section/article: 849. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 2162. Original section/article: 850. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension of execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction
Lodging of a protest to decrees entered into legal force shall suspend the execution of these decrees.
Footnote.

Section 2163. Original section/article: 850. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 2164. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Cassational procedure for review of decrees on cases on administrative infractions entered into legal force 
1. The court of cassation, sitting in a panel of at least three judges, upon the recommendation of the president of the court of cassation, the protest of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their deputies, the Chief Military Prosecutor, or the Chief Transport Prosecutor, shall have the right to review the legality and validity of a court ruling that has entered into legal force in a case concerning an administrative offence.
2. Representation, protest to the side aggravating position of a person brought to administrative liability, or a person in respect of whom the administrative proceeding is terminated, shall be admitted within a year from the date of entering of decree of court into legal force. 
3. The protest to decrees on cases on administrative infractions, the decree of court with regard to complaint, protest to them shall conform to requirements mentioned in

Section 2165. Original section/article: 833. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. A person brought to administrative responsibility, complainant, their legal representatives, defenders, representatives of legal persons, as well as authorized authorities (executive officers) administering proceedings through their central state, local executive authorities of regions, cities of republican status and the capital city have a right to file a request on introduction of a petition and lodging of prosecutor’s appeal.
Petitions for the filing of representations and cassation appeals leading to an improvement in the situation of a person subject to administrative liability may be filed within two years from the date of entry into force of the decision on the administrative offence case.
5. The grounds for the review in cassational procedure of decrees on cases on administrative infractions are cases when:
1) the implementation of the adopted resolution may lead to serious irreversible consequences for the life and health of people or for the economy and national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) adopted decree violates the rights and legitimate interests of an indefinite circle of persons or other public interests;
3) adopted decree violates the uniformity in the interpretation and application by the courts, authorized bodies (civil servants) of the rules of law. 
6. The prosecutor that issued the protest, shall has the right recalled it by filing an application to the court of cassational instance before consider the protest. The recall of the protest does not prevent its reapplying.
7. The case shall be heard by the court of cassation within a reasonable period of time, but not exceeding six months from the date of its receipt by the court.
Based on the results of the review of the case in cassation, the court shall adopt one of the following decisions:
1) to leave the ruling unchanged, the protest – unsatisfied;
2) to amend the ruling;
3) cancellation of the ruling and termination of the case if there are circumstances specified in Articles 741 and 742 of this Code, as well as if the circumstances on which the ruling was based are not proven;
4) cancellation of the ruling and issuance of a new ruling on the case.
8. Consideration of a case by a court of cassation in cases where the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan has overturned a ruling on an administrative offence and referred the case back to the court of cassation for retrial shall be governed by the rules set out in this chapter.
Footnote.

Section 2166. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 20.03.2021 № 21-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force on 01.07.2025). 
Chapter 46-1. Retrial of cases concerning administrative offences in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. The Law is supplemented by Chapter 46-1 in compliance with Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective on 01.07.2025).

Section 2167. Original section/article: 851-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Grounds for reviewing final court decisions in cases of administrative offences by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. In exceptional cases, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan may review judicial acts that have entered into legal force after their consideration by the court of cassation upon the submission of a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or a protest by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if:
1) the adopted resolution violates the uniformity of interpretation and application of legal norms by courts, authorised bodies (officials);
2) the adopted resolution infringes upon the rights and legitimate interests of an indefinite group of persons or other public interests;
3) the implementation of the adopted resolution may lead to serious irreversible consequences for the life and health of people or for the economy and national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan may lodge an appeal for review with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan against judicial acts that have entered into legal force, either on their own initiative or at the request of the persons specified in part four of

Section 2168. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, on the grounds set out in part one of this Article.

Section 2169. Original section/article: 851-2. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Introduction of a motion by a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Upon request of the persons referred to in part four of

Section 2170. Original section/article: 851. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code regarding the need to review judicial acts that have entered into legal force, a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan may request for examination the case of an administrative offence. Based on the results of the case review, if there are grounds specified in part one of

Section 2171. Original section/article: 851-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, a motion shall be made indicating:
1) the date and place of the submission;
2) the case in respect of which the motion is made, indicating the contested judicial acts;
3) the grounds and arguments for making the motion.
In the event of a request by the parties to proceedings in cases concerning administrative offences to suspend the enforcement of a judicial act, the judge shall indicate this in the motion.

Section 2172. Original section/article: 851-3. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension of the enforcement of a decision imposing an administrative penalty
The Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be entitled to suspend the execution of a ruling on an administrative offence until it is reviewed.

Section 2173. Original section/article: 851-4. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Review of judicial acts that have entered into legal force in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The parties shall be notified of the time and place of the review of judicial acts that have entered into legal force. 
2. Judicial acts that have entered into legal force shall be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan within a reasonable period of time.
3. The participation of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or, on their behalf, subordinate prosecutors of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be mandatory.
4. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if it finds grounds specified in part one of

Section 2174. Original section/article: 851-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, shall take one of the following decisions:
1) leave the decision of the court of cassation unchanged;
2) changes the ruling of the court of cassation, leaving unchanged or overturning the ruling of the court of appeal or the ruling of the court of first instance;
3) overturns the rulings of the courts of cassation and appeal, changing the ruling of the court of first instance or leaving it unchanged; 
4) overturns the decision of the court of cassation and refers the case back to the court of cassation for a new trial; 
5) cancels the ruling of the court of cassation, as well as the ruling of the court of appeal and the ruling of the court of first instance, and terminates the case.
5. The ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall enter into legal force on the day of its announcement and shall be final.
Chapter 47. REVIEW OF DECISIONS ON ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENCES THAT HAVE ENTERED INTO LEGAL FORCE, 
PROCEEDINGS IN WHICH THEY WERE ENTERED INTO FORCE IN SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS, DECISIONS ON CASES 
OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENCES, ORDERS TO PAY FINES AND DECISIONS BASED ON THE RESULTS OF THE REVIEW 
OF COMPLAINTS, APPEALS, AND PROTESTS BY THE PROSECUTOR REGARDING NEWLY REVEALED CIRCUMSTANCES
Footnote. Title of Chapter 47 is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2175. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Grounds of review
1. Decisions on administrative offences, proceedings in which have been conducted under summary procedure, rulings on administrative offences, orders to pay fines and rulings following the examination of complaints and appeals may be reviewed in the light of newly revealed circumstances.
2. The grounds for reviewing decisions on administrative offences, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, rulings and orders on newly discovered circumstancesshall be as follows:
1) circumstances essential for a case that were not and might not be known by an offender, injured party;
2) knowingly false evidences of a witness, knowingly false opinion of an expert, knowingly incorrect interpretation, forgery of a protocol on administrative infraction or prescription on necessity to pay a fine, of documents or material evidences that entailed issuance of illegal or unreasonable decree, established by the court verdict that entered into legal force;
3) criminal actions of participants of a proceeding on cases on administrative infractions, of other persons participating in a case, or their representatives or criminal actions of judges, authorized bodies (civil servant) committed during consideration of this case, established by the court verdict that entered into legal force;
4) revocation of a decision, verdict, ruling or decree of court or legal act of another state body (civil servant) that served as the ground for issuance of this decree;
5) recognition by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan as unconstitutional of a law or other regulatory legal act that was applied in this case of an administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 2176. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall go into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2177. Original section/article: 853. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Courts, authorised bodies (officials) reviewing decisions on cases of administrative offences, 
proceedings in respect of which are conducted in summary proceedings, rulings on cases of administrative offences, 
orders to pay fines and rulings following the consideration of complaints and appeals against them in light of newly revealed circumstances
Decisions on administrative offences that have entered into legal force, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, rulings and orders shall be reviewed in light of newly revealed circumstances by the court, authorised body (official) that issued the decision..
Where a court reviews a decision on administrative offences that have been dealt with in summary proceedings, the rulings and orders of the authority (official) and leaves them unchanged, the review in light of newly revealed circumstances shall be performed by the court that issued the decision.
Footnote.

Section 2178. Original section/article: 853. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into force upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2179. Original section/article: 854. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Filing of application
1. An application for review of a decision in an administrative offence case proceedings in respect of which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, an order to pay a fine in light of newly revealed circumstances shall be submitted by the person brought to administrative responsibility, the victim or their legal representatives, or the prosecutor to the court, body (official) that issued the ruling or order.
2. The persons specified in part one of this article may file an application for review of a decision on an administrative offence case, proceedings of which have been conducted in summary proceedings, or a ruling or order based on newly revealed circumstances within three months from the date of establishment of the circumstances serving as grounds for review.
Footnote.

Section 2180. Original section/article: 854. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2181. Original section/article: 855. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Forma and content of application
1. An application for review of a decision on an administrative offence, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, or an order to pay a fine in light of newly discovered circumstances shall be submitted in writing. The application shall be signed by the person filing the application or their authorised representative.
2. The application on review on newly discovered circumstances shall contain:
1) name of a court, body (civil servant) to which the application is filed;
2) details on a person filing the application (for individuals – last name, first name, patronymic (when available), subscriber’s number of phone, fax, cellular communications and (or) electronic mail (if available); for legal entities – name, location, number and date of state registration (reregistration) of a legal entity, subscriber’s number of phone, fax, cellular communications and (or) electronic mail (if available);
3) name of a court, body (civil servant) that adopted the act on review of which the applicant files petition on newly discovered circumstances; date of adoption of this act;
4) the request of the person filing the application; newly revealed circumstances referred to in

Section 2182. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code which, in the opinion of the applicant, constitute grounds for reviewing the decision on the administrative offence case, proceedings in which a summary procedure has been applied, rulings, orders to pay a fine due to newly discovered circumstances, with reference to documents confirming the discovery or establishment of these circumstances;
5) list of attached documents.
3. The application shall be accompanied by:
1) copies of documents certifying newly discovered circumstances;
2) a copy of the administrative offence report (if any), the decision, the order to pay the fine, the review of which is requested by the applicant;
3) a document certifying direction of absent copies of an application and documents to the other persons participating in a case;
4) credibility or another document certifying the powers of a person for signing an application.
Footnote.

Section 2183. Original section/article: 855. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2184. Original section/article: 856. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Admission of an application for initiation of proceeding of a court, body (civil servant)
1. An application for review of a decision on an administrative offence, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, or an order to pay a fine due to newly revealed circumstances, lodged in compliance with the requirements for its form and content, shall be accepted for consideration by the relevant court, body (official).
2. Issue on admission of an application for initiation of proceeding shall be solved within three days from the date of its receipt.
3. Upon admission of an application for proceeding, the ruling containing date and place of holding of meeting on consideration of the application, shall be issued.
4. Copies of a ruling shall be directed to persons participating in a case.
Footnote.

Section 2185. Original section/article: 856. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 №127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2186. Original section/article: 857. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Return of an application for review of a decision on an administrative offence case, the proceedings of which have been 
conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, or an order to pay a fine due to newly revealed circumstances
Footnote. The title of

Section 2187. Original section/article: 857. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. The judge of the relevant court or an official of the authorised body shall return to the applicant the application for review of the decision on an administrative offence case, the proceedings on which have been conducted in summary proceedings, the ruling, or the order to pay a fine due to newly revealed circumstances, if, when deciding whether to accept the case for consideration, it is established that: 
1) the application is filed with violation of rules established by

Section 2188. Original section/article: 855. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) the application is filed after expiration of established term and there is no petition on its restoration or restoration of omitted term for filing of application was refused;
3) the requirements submitted to form and content of the application were not complied.
2. Upon return of an application, the ruling shall be issued.
Copy of the ruling shall be directed to an applicant together with an application and enclosed documents no later than the next day after the date of its issuance.
3. The ruling on return of application may be appealed, reviewed on petition or protest of a prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 2189. Original section/article: 857. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2190. Original section/article: 858. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Calculation of term for filing of application
The term for filing of application shall be calculated:
1) in cases provided by subparagraph 1) of part two of

Section 2191. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code – from the date of discovery of circumstances having substantial significance for a case;
2) in cases provided by subparagraphs 2) and 3) of part two of

Section 2192. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code – from the date of entering of a court verdict into legal force;
3) in instances stipulated in sub-paragraph 4) of part two of

Section 2193. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, – from the date of entry into legal force of the sentence, decision, ruling, order of the court or legal act of another public authority (official) on which the reviewed decision on the administrative offence case has been based, proceedings which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, an order to pay a fine;
4) in the cases provided for by subparagraph 5) of part two of

Section 2194. Original section/article: 852. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code – from the date of adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the recognition as unconstitutional of a law or other regulatory legal act that was applied in this case of an administrative offense.
Footnote.

Section 2195. Original section/article: 858. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2196. Original section/article: 859. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Consideration of an application
An application for review of a decision on an administrative offence case, the proceedings of which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, or an order to pay a fine due to newly revealed circumstances shall be reviewed by the court, body (official) at a hearing. The applicant and the persons involved in the case shall be notified of the time and venue of the hearing, but their failure to appear shall not prevent the application from being considered.
Footnote.

Section 2197. Original section/article: 859. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2198. Original section/article: 860. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Decree of the court, competent authority (official) on the retrial of a case
1. The court, body (official), having reviewed the application for review of a decision on an administrative offence case, which was conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, or an order to pay a fine based on newly revealed circumstances, shall satisfy the application and overturn the decision on the administrative offence case, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, a ruling, an order or a refusal to review.
2. Decisions of courts, bodies (officials) on the cancellation of a decision in an administrative offence case, proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, rulings, orders due to newly revealed circumstances and on the refusal to satisfy an application for review of a decision in an administrative offence case, where production has been effected pursuant to summary proceedings, rulings and orders in respect of newly discovered circumstances may be appealed and challenged as established by law.
3. Where a decision on an administrative offence case is revoked, the proceedings in which have been conducted in summary proceedings, the ruling or order shall be reviewed by the court, body (official) under the rules established by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2199. Original section/article: 860. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as revised by Law of the RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 48. REHABILITATION, COMPENSATIO FOR DAMAGE
INFLICTED BY ILLEGAL ACTIONS OF A BODY (CIVIL SERVANT)
AUTHORIZED TO CONSIDER CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS

Section 2200. Original section/article: 861. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Rehabilitation by recognition of faultlessness of a person brought to administrative liability
1. The person in respect of whom the decree of court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions, on termination of a case on the grounds provided by subparagraphs 1) – 7) and 11) of part one of

Section 2201. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is issued, shall be considered faultless and may not be subjected to any restrictions in rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions shall be obliged to take all the measures provided by the Law on recognition of a person mentioned in a part one of this Article as faultless and on restoration of personal non-property and property rights violated in a result of illegal actions of a judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.

Section 2202. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Persons having the right to compensation of damage inflicted in a result of illegal actions of a court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions
1. Damage inflicted to a person in a result of illegal application of the measures of ensuring the proceeding on case shall be compensated from republican budget in a full measure independently from guilt of a judge, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.
2. The following persons shall have the right to compensation of damage inflicted in a result of illegal actions, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions:
1) persons mentioned in a part one of

Section 2203. Original section/article: 745. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
2) persons in respect of whom the proceeding on case should not be initiated, and the initiated proceeding was subject to termination on the grounds provided by subparagraphs 1) – 7) and 11) of part one of

Section 2204. Original section/article: 741. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, if the proceeding on case was initiated in spite of existence of the circumstances excluding the administrative infraction proceeding, or was not terminated from the date of their detection.
3. In case of death of an individual, the right of compensation of damage in established manner shall be transferred to his (her) legal successors.
4. Damage shall not be subject to compensation to a person if it is proved that during the proceeding on case by voluntary self-accusation, he (she) barred establishment of truth and so promoted occurrence of the consequences mentioned in a part one of this Article.
5. In the absence of circumstances mentioned in subparagraph 2 (of part two of this Article, the rules of this Article shall not apply to the cases when the administrative sanctions imposed on a person and other measures of legal administrative effect are cancelled or changed due to expiration of the terms of limitation, adoption of the Law eliminating administrative liability or mitigating administrative sanction.

Section 2205. Original section/article: 863. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Damage subjected to compensation
The persons mentioned in

Section 2206. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall have the right to compensation of property damage in a full measure, elimination of consequences of moral damage and restoration in all lost or impaired rights.

Section 2207. Original section/article: 864. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Recognition of the right to compensation of damage
After adoption of a decision on full or partial rehabilitation of a person, the judge or body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions shall be obliged to recognize his (her) right to compensation of damage. Copy of decree on termination of a case, on repeal or change of other illegal decisions shall be delivered or sent to an interested person by mail. At the same time, the notification with explanation of the procedure for compensation of damage shall be directed to him (her). In the absence of details on place of residence of successors, relatives or dependents of deceased person having the right to compensation of damage, the notification shall be directed to them no later than five days from the date of their apply to the body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.

Section 2208. Original section/article: 865. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compensation of property damage
1. Property damage inflicted to persons mentioned in

Section 2209. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall include the compensation of:
1) salary, pension, benefits, other funds and incomes that they are deprived;
2) property illegally confiscated on the basis of court decree. Upon impossibility to return the property, its cost shall be returned;
3) fines recovered in execution of illegal decree of a body (civil servant) authorized to solve a case; procedural expenditures and other sums paid by a person due to illegal actions;
4) sums paid by a person for rendering of legal assistance;
5) other expenses incurred in a result of illegal bringing to administrative liability.
2. The sums paid for maintenance of persons mentioned in a part one of

Section 2210. Original section/article: 603. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code at the places of execution of administrative arrest, the procedural expenditures linked with a proceeding on case, and equally earnings for performing any works by these persons during execution of the administrative arrest may not be deducted from the sums subjected to payment as a recompense of damage inflicted in a result of illegal actions of a body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.
3. Upon receipt of a copy of documents mentioned in

Section 2211. Original section/article: 823. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code with notification on procedure for compensation of damage, the persons mentioned in parts two and three of

Section 2212. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall have the right to refer to the body (civil servant) that issued the decree on termination of a case, revocation or change of other illegal decisions with a demand for compensation of property damage. If the case is terminated by a superior body (civil servant) or a court, the demand for compensation of damage shall be directed to a body (civil servant) that issued illegal decree. If the case being considered by a judge is terminated by a superior court, the demand for compensation of damage shall be directed to the judge that issued illegal decree. In case of rehabilitation of a minor person, the demand for compensation of damage may be applied by his (her) legal representative.
4. No later than one month from the date of receipt of the application, the body (civil servant) mentioned in a part two of this Article shall determine the extent of damage after requesting estimation in necessary cases from financial bodies and bodies of social protection after what shall issue a decree on making payments as a recompense of this damage adjusted for inflation. If the case is terminated by a court, the mentioned actions shall be made by a judge that considered the case.
5. Copy of a decree certified by the common seal shall be delivered or sent to a person for representation in bodies that are obliged to make payment. Procedure for paying shall be determined by the legislation.

Section 2213. Original section/article: 866. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Elimination of consequences of moral damage
1. The body (civil servant) that adopted decision on rehabilitation of a person, shall be obliged to submit apologies to him (her) in written form for inflicted damage.
2. Claims for compensation for inflicted moral damage in pecuniary terms shall be made in the manner of civil legal proceeding.
3. If the person was illegally brought to administrative liability, and details on this were published in the press, distributed via radio, television or other means of mass media, upon request of this person, and in case of his (her) death – upon request of his (her) relatives or a prosecutor, the relevant mass media shall be obliged to make necessary statement on this within one month.
4. Upon request of the persons mentioned in

Section 2214. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions shall be obliged to direct written statement on revocation of own illegal decisions at the place of their work, education, residence within ten days.

Section 2215. Original section/article: 867. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Terms for submission of requirements
1. Requirements on making monetary payments as a recompense of property damage may be submitted within one year from the date of receipt of a decree on making such payments by persons mentioned in

Section 2216. Original section/article: 862. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
2. Requirements on restoration of such rights may be submitted within six months from the date of receipt of a notification explaining the procedure for restoration of the rights.
3. In case of omission of these terms by reasonable excuse, they shall be subject to restoration upon application of interested persons by a body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.

Section 2217. Original section/article: 868. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compensation of damage to legal entities
The damage inflicted to legal entities by illegal actions of a body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions shall be subject to restoration by the state in a full measure and terms established by this chapter.

Section 2218. Original section/article: 869. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Restoration of rights in court actions
If the requirement on rehabilitation or compensation of damage is not satisfied or the person is not agreed with adopted decision, he (she) shall have the right to refer in court in the manner of civil legal proceeding.
Chapter 49. SPECIAL ASPECTS OF A PROCEEDING ON CASES
OF PERSONS HAVING PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITY
FROM ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY

Section 2219. Original section/article: 870. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure for the administrative infraction proceeding in respect of a deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan may not be subject to bringing, measures of administrative sanction imposed in a judicial proceeding within the term of own powers without the consent of the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. For obtainment of the consent to bringing of a deputy to administrative liability entailing imposition of the administrative sanction in a judicial proceeding, bringing, the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall submit proposal to the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan the deputy of which is the person that committed administrative infraction. The proposal shall be submitted before direction of a case on administrative infraction in court, as well as before solution of the issue on necessity of compulsory conveying of a deputy in court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.
3. Decision of the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan for proposal submitted by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be issued in terms established by the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and status of its deputies”.
4. If the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan gives a consent to bringing of a deputy to administrative liability entailing imposition of administrative sanction in a judicial proceeding, the further proceeding on case shall be conducted in the manner established by this Code considering the special aspects provided by this Article.
5. If the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan gives a consent to bringing, the question of application of this measure of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding shall be solved in the manner established by this Code.
6. In case if the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan did not give a consent to bringing of a deputy to administrative liability entailing imposition of administrative sanction in a judicial proceeding, the proceeding on case shall be subject to termination on this ground.
7. In case if the relevant Chamber of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan did not give a consent to bringing, the other measures of ensuring the administrative infraction proceeding shall be applied to a deputy in the manner established by this Code.
8. Supervision of legality of considering a case on administrative infraction in a judicial proceeding in respect of a deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be carried out by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2220. Original section/article: 871. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure for the administrative infraction proceeding in respect of a candidate for President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, candidate for deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Candidates for President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the date of their registration and until publication of election returns, as well as until their registration as the President, deputy of the Parliament may not be subject to bringing, measures of administrative sanction imposed in a judicial proceeding without the consent of the Central Elective Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Proposal on bringing of a candidate for President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan to administrative liability shall be submitted to the Central Elective Commission by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan before direction of a case on administrative infraction in court.
3. Substantiated decision of the Central Elective Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan to proposal submitted by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be issued within ten days from the date of its receipt.
4. After receipt of the decision of the Central Elective Commission by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the further proceeding on case shall be conducted in the manner established by

Section 2221. Original section/article: 872. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure of proceedings in the case of an administrative offense against the Chairman, Deputy Chairman or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Footnote. The title of

Section 2222. Original section/article: 872. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).
1. The Chairman, Deputy Chairman or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the term of their powers may not be subjected to bringing to court, administrative penalties imposed in court, without the consent of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In order to obtain consent to bring the Chairman, Deputy Chairman or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan to administrative responsibility, entailing the imposition of an administrative penalty in court, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan submits a recommendation to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The recommendation is made before submission of the case of an administrative offense to the court, the decision on the need to forcibly bring the Chairman, Deputy Chairman or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the court, to the body (to the official) authorized to consider cases of administrative offenses.
3. After receipt of the decision of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the further proceeding on case shall be conducted in the manner established by

Section 2223. Original section/article: 813. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
Footnote.

Section 2224. Original section/article: 872. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 2225. Original section/article: 873. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure for the administrative infraction proceeding in respect of a judge
1. The judge may not be arrested, subjected to bringing, measures of administrative sanction imposed in a judicial proceeding without the consent of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan based on conclusion of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic, or in case established by subparagraph 3) of

Section 2226. Original section/article: 55. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan without the consent of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. For obtainment of the consent for bringing of a judge to administrative liability entailing imposition of administrative sanction in a judicial proceeding, bringing, the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall submit a proposal to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and in case provided by subparagraph 3) of

Section 2227. Original section/article: 55. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Constitution – to the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The proposal shall be submitted before direction of a case on administrative infraction in court, before solution of the issue on necessity of compulsory conveying of a judge in court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.
3. After receipt of the decision of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the further proceeding on case shall be conducted in the manner established by

Section 2228. Original section/article: 813. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. The case on administrative infraction settled by proceeding in respect of a judge shall be transferred by a body (civil servant) carrying out this proceeding in the manner established by this Code in court through the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2229. Original section/article: 874. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure for the administrative infraction proceeding in respect of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan may not be subjected to bringing, measures of administrative sanction imposed in a judicial proceeding within the entire term of own powers without the consent of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. For obtainment of the consent for bringing of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan to administrative liability entailing imposition of administrative sanction in a judicial proceeding, bringing, the first deputy of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall submit a proposal to the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The proposal shall be submitted before direction of a case on administrative infraction in court, before solution of the issue on necessity of compulsory conveying of the General Prosecutor in court, body (civil servant) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions.
3. After receipt of the decision of the Senate of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the first deputy of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the further proceeding on case shall be conducted in the manner established by

Section 2230. Original section/article: 819. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
5. Supervision of legality of considering a case on administrative infraction in a judicial proceeding in respect of a deputy of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be carried out by his (her) first deputy.
6. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015). 
Footnote.

Section 2231. Original section/article: 874. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 2232. Original section/article: 874-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Conditions and procedure for proceedings in a case on an administrative offense against the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. The Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan during the term of his powers may not be subjected to bringing to court, administrative penalties imposed in court, without the consent of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In order to obtain consent to bring the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan to administrative responsibility, entailing the imposition of an administrative penalty in court, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan submits a recommendation to the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The recommendation is made before submission of the case of an administrative offense to the court, the decision on the need to forcibly bring the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan to the court, the body (to the official) authorized to consider cases of administrative offenses.
3. After the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan receives the decision of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, further proceedings on the case shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by

Section 2233. Original section/article: 819. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
4. Supervision over the legality of the consideration of a case on an administrative offense in court against the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan is carried out by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 49 is supplemented by

Section 2234. Original section/article: 874-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2235. Original section/article: 875. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Consideration by a judge of an administrative offense case against a deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman, Deputy Chairman or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, judge, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Heading as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 29, 2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).
1. Consideration of a case shall be carried out in general with special aspects of the proceeding on cases of the persons having privileges and immunity from administrative liability.
2. As a measure to ensure the proceedings on an administrative offense, the judge has the right to apply the bringing to court to a deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman or a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, applying with a recommendation to give a consent to this in accordance with the procedure provided for in part two of

Section 2236. Original section/article: 874-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, if in giving consent to the bringing by state bodies, specified in paragraph 4 of

Section 2237. Original section/article: 83. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, prior to the consideration of the case, it was refused by the judge or such consent was not requested.
Footnote.

Section 2238. Original section/article: 875. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 92-VII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 158-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 2239. Original section/article: 876. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Persons having diplomatic immunity from administrative liability
1. In accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, the following persons shall enjoy immunity from administrative liability in a judicial proceeding in the Republic of Kazakhstan:
1) the heads of diplomatic representatives of foreign states, the members of diplomatic personnel of these representatives and their family members, if they reside jointly with them and are not citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) on the basis of mutuality, the employees of service personnel of diplomatic representatives and their family members residing jointly with them, if these employees and their family members are not citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan or do not reside on a permanent basis in Kazakhstan, heads of consular agencies and other consular civil servant in respect of the acts committed by them upon execution of employment duties, unless otherwise provided by the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) on the basis of mutuality, the employees of administrative and technical personnel of diplomatic representatives and their family members residing jointly with them, if these employees and their family members are not citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan or do not reside on a permanent basis in Kazakhstan;
4) the diplomatic couriers;
5) the heads and representatives of foreign states, members of parliamentary and governmental delegations, and on the basis of mutuality – the employees of delegations of foreign states arriving to Kazakhstan for participation in international negotiations, international conferences and meetings or with other official instructions, or travelling through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the same purposes and family members of the mentioned persons that accompany them, if these family members are not citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) the heads, members and personnel of the representatives of foreign states in international organizations, the civil servants of these organizations located in a territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of international treaties or generally accepted international customs;
7) the heads of diplomatic representative, members of diplomatic personnel of representatives of foreign states in a third country travelling through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and their family members that accompany the mentioned persons or that travel separately for joining them or for the purpose of returning to own country;
8) other persons in accordance with an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The persons mentioned in subparagraphs 1), 4) – 7) of part one of this Article, as well as the persons in accordance with an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be brought to administrative liability only in the case if the foreign state represents formal waiver of immunity from administrative liability. The issue on such waiver shall be solved upon presentation of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan through the Ministry of foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan by diplomatic means. In the absence of waiver of the relevant foreign state of immunity of the mentioned persons, the administrative proceeding in respect of them may not be initiated, and the initiated proceeding – shall be subject to termination.
3. The rules of part two of this Article shall not apply to the persons mentioned in subparagraphs 2) and 3) of part one of this Article, with the exception of cases when the infraction committed by these persons is linked with execution of own employment duties and is not directed against the interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise provided by the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2240. Original section/article: 877. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Search, administrative detention and bringing of persons enjoying diplomatic immunity
1. The persons listed in subparagraphs 1), 4) – 7) of part one of

Section 2241. Original section/article: 876. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as other persons in accordance with international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall enjoy personal inviolability. In existence of documents being in their possession confirming their status of persons enjoying diplomatic immunity, they may not be subject to personal inspection, detained or subjected to bringing for commission of an administrative infraction. Search of the things being in their possession also may not be carried out.
2. If the foreign state represents formal waiver of immunity from administrative liability of the persons mentioned in subparagraphs 1), 4) – 7) of part one of

Section 2242. Original section/article: 876. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, the proceeding on case shall be carried out according to the standard procedure.

Section 2243. Original section/article: 878. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Diplomatic immunity from testimony
1. The persons listed in subparagraphs 1), 3) – 6) of part one of

Section 2244. Original section/article: 876. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as other persons in accordance with the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan may not give testimony as a witness, injured party, and when approved to give such testimony – are not obliged to appear to a judge, body (civil servant) considering a case on administrative infraction. Call for interrogation delivered to mentioned persons shall not contain notifications on a possibility of applying compulsory measures for their non-appearance.
2. In case if these persons gave testimony as injured parties, witnesses in the course of administrative proceeding, and did not appear during consideration of a case, the judge, body (civil servant) considering the case on administrative infraction shall announce their testimony.
3. The persons mentioned in subparagraph 2) of part one of

Section 2245. Original section/article: 876. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code may not refuse from giving testimony as witnesses and injured parties, except for the testimony on the issues linked with execution of their employment duties. In case of refusal of consular civil servants to give witness statements, the measures of ensuring a case on administrative infraction may not be applied to them.
4. The persons enjoying diplomatic immunity shall not be obliged to represent correspondence and other documents related to execution of employment duties by them to a judge, body (civil servant) considering a case on administrative infraction.

Section 2246. Original section/article: 879. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Diplomatic immunity of premises and documents
1. Residency of a head of diplomatic representative, premise, occupied by diplomatic representatives, living quarters of members of diplomatic personnel and their family members, the property in their possession and means of transportation are inviolable. Access to these premises, their survey, as well as search of means of transportation may be carried out only in the consent of a head of diplomatic representative or a person substituting him (her).
2. On the basis of mutuality, the immunity provided by a part one of this Article shall apply to living quarters occupied by employees of service personnel of a diplomatic representative and their family members that reside jointly with them, if these employees and their family members are not the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. The premise occupied by a consular agency and residency of a head of consular agency shall enjoy inviolability on the basis of mutuality. Access to these premises, their survey may take place only upon request or with the consent of a head of consular agency or diplomatic representative of the relevant foreign state.
4. Archives, official correspondence and other documents of diplomatic representatives and consular agencies are inviolable. They may not be subjected to survey and withdrawal without the consent of a head of diplomatic representative, consular agency. Diplomatic mail shall not be subject to printing and detention.
5. Consent of a head of diplomatic representative or consular agency to access to the premises mentioned by parts one, two and three of this Article, performance of survey, as well as to survey and seizure of documents mentioned in a part four of this Article shall be requested by a prosecutor through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. In case of receipt of request or consent of a head of diplomatic representative or consular agency to access to premises, performance of survey, as well as survey and seizure of documents mentioned in a part four of this Article shall be carried out in the presence of a prosecutor and representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chapter 50. INTERACTION OF BODIES CARRYING OUT THE
ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTION PROCEEDING, WITH COMPETENT
INSTITUTIONS AND CIVIL SERVANTS OF FOREIGN STATES ON
CASES ON ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS

Section 2247. Original section/article: 880. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
General conditions of rendering of legal assistance on cases on administrative infractions
1. In accordance with rendering of legal assistance to courts, bodies (civil servants) of foreign states with which the Republic of Kazakhstan concluded the international treaty on legal assistance, or on the basis of interaction, the actions provided by this Code, as well as the other actions provided by other Laws and international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be conducted.
2. In case if the provisions of international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan contradict this Code, the provisions of the international treaty shall be applied.
3. The costs linked with rendering of legal assistance shall be incurred by requested institution in a territory of own state, unless otherwise provided by the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2248. Original section/article: 881. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Direction of requests on provision of information and documents and instructions on conduct of separate procedural actions
1. Requests on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions may be directed between courts, bodies (civil servants) in cases provided by international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In cases when it is impossible to determine to which court, body it is necessary to direct a request on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions, they shall be directed to the central body of Requested Party.
3. Request on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions shall be drawn up in written in a form of a body and shall contain:
1) name of requested body of the relevant Party;
2) name of requesting body of the relevant Party;
3) detailed description of an infraction and other facts related to it, data on costs of goods, on extent of damage, legal qualification of the act in accordance with the legislation of Requesting Party accompanied by a text of applied Law;
4) names, patronymics (when available) and last names of persons in respect of whom the administrative infraction proceeding is conducted, witnesses, their place of residence or place of stay, citizenship, occupation, place and date of birth, for legal entities – their full name and location (if there is information on listed details);
5) instruction on delivery of a document shall contain exact address of a recipient and name of delivered document;
6) list of details and actions subjected to representation or execution (for interrogation it is necessary to state which circumstances should be investigated and clarified, as well as a sequence and wording of the questions that shall be raised to a respondent).
4. Request on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions may also contain:
1) specification of a term for execution of required measures;
2) petition on conduct of the measures mentioned in the request in a certain manner;
3) petition on a provision of possibility to representatives of bodies of Requesting Party to attend during performance of the measures mentioned in the request, as well as to participate in their performance if it is not inconsistent with the legislation of Parties;
4) other petitions linked with performance of a request, instruction.
5. The request on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions shall be signed by a head of requesting body or his (her) deputy. The request, instruction shall be accompanied by available copies of documents to which there are references in a text of the request, instruction, copies of the other documents required for their proper execution.
6. Bodies of the Parties may send procedural documents by mail directly to participants of the administrative infraction proceeding being in a territory of the other Party.
7. Direction of repeated request on provision of information and documents, instruction on conduct of separate procedural actions on cases on administrative infractions shall be allowed upon necessity of receiving additional details, clarification of information received within the execution of previous request or instruction.

Section 2249. Original section/article: 882. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of requests on provision of information and documents and instructions on conduct of separate procedural actions
1. The court, body (civil servant) shall execute instructions of the relevant institutions and civil servants of foreign states transferred to them in established manner on the proceeding of procedural actions as a general rule of this Code.
2. Upon execution of an instruction, the procedural rules of foreign state may be applied if it is provided by the international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan with this state.
3. In cases provided by the international treaty, the representative of a competent institution of the other state may attend upon execution of an instruction.
4. If the request (instruction) may not be executed, the received documents shall be returned to the foreign institution from which the instruction was originated specifying reasons that obstructed its execution. The instruction shall be returned, if its execution may cause damage to sovereignty or security or contradicts the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2250. Original section/article: 5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
EXECUTION OF DECREES ON IMPOSITION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
Chapter 51. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 2251. Original section/article: 883. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Entering of a decree on case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine into legal force 
The decree on a case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall enter into legal force:
1) upon expiration of the term established for appealing the decree on case on administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine, if it was not appealed or protested;
2) without delay after issuance of a decree on a complaint, protest, as well as issuance of the decree in case provided by

Section 2252. Original section/article: 339. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) without delay in case provided by paragraph one, part two of

Section 2253. Original section/article: 811. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3-1) immediately upon a written request from a person, in relation to whom proceedings are administered, and from complainant, stipulated by Articles 744 and 745 of this Code;
4) after announcement of the decree on expulsion of a foreigner or stateless person beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 2254. Original section/article: 883. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2255. Original section/article: 884. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Obligatoriness of decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Footnote. Title of

Section 2256. Original section/article: 884. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be compulsory for execution by all the state bodies, bodies of local self-government, civil servants, individuals and their associations, legal entities.
2. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be subject to execution from the date of its entering into legal force.
3. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction in the form of deprivation of a special right and administrative arrest shall be subject to execution from the date of issuance.
Footnote.

Section 2257. Original section/article: 884. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2258. Original section/article: 885. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Recourse of decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine to execution 
Recourse of decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine to execution shall be assigned on a judge, body (civil servant) that issued the decree, or body that drew up the prescription. The decree shall be directed to a body (civil servant) authorized to carry it into execution within a day from the date of its entering into legal force. The decree on imposition of administrative infraction in the form of deprivation of the special right shall be directed to bodies authorized to carry it into execution immediately after its issuance.
Footnote.

Section 2259. Original section/article: 885. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2260. Original section/article: 886. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Carrying a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine into execution
Footnote. Title of

Section 2261. Original section/article: 886. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be carried into execution by authorized bodies in the manner established by this Code.
2. In case of issuance of several decrees on imposition of administrative sanctions, prescriptions on necessity to pay a fine in respect of one person, each decree, prescription shall be carried into execution on an independent basis.
3. Avoidance of a person from administrative sanction shall entail execution of this sanction in a compulsory manner in accordance with the legislation.
Footnote.

Section 2262. Original section/article: 886. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2263. Original section/article: 887. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Solution of issues linked with execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Footnote. Title of

Section 2264. Original section/article: 887. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The body (civil servant) that issued a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, or body, that drew up a prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall be assigned to solve the issues linked with execution of this decree, prescription and control of its execution.
2. The issues on deferral, installment, suspension or termination of executing a decree on imposition of administrative infraction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine as well as on recover of a fine imposed on a minor person from his (her) parents or persons substituting them, shall be considered by a judge, body (civil servant) that issued the decree, drew up the prescription, within three days term from the date of occurrence of the ground for solution of the relevant issue.
3. The persons interested in solution of the issues mentioned in a part two of this Article shall be notified on place and time of their consideration. By this, non-appearance of interested persons without reasonable excuses is not an impediment for solution of the relevant issues. Upon consideration of the issue on avoidance from serving administrative arrest, the appearance of the person subjected to administrative arrest shall be compulsory.
4. Solution on the issues mentioned in a part two of this Article shall be adopted in the form of decree.
5. Copy of a decree shall be delivered immediately to an individual or representative of legal entity in respect of whom it is issued, as well as to an injured person upon his (her) request against receipt. In case of absence of mentioned persons, the copy of a decree shall be sent within three days from the date of its issuance, whereat the relevant record shall be made in a case.
Footnote.

Section 2265. Original section/article: 887. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2266. Original section/article: 888. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Deferral and installment of execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Where there are circumstances making enforcement of an order to pay penalty, judgement on imposition of administrative penalty in the form of administrative arrest, deprivation of a special right, or a penalty impossible within the terms established by the law, a judge, authority (executive officer) who has passed judgement, or a authority that executed order may, upon application from a person in relation to whom judgement is passed, order executed, defer execution of the judgement, order for a term up to one month. In consideration of the financial standing of a person brought to administrative responsibility, payment of a penalty may be deferred by a judge, authority (executive officer) who passed judgement, or a authority that executed order, for a term up to three months.
Footnote.

Section 2267. Original section/article: 888. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2268. Original section/article: 889. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Release from execution of administrative sanction 
The judge, body (civil servant) that issued a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, or body that drew up the prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall terminate execution of the decree, the prescription and release from administrative sanction in cases of:
1) repeal of the Law or its separate provisions establishing administrative liability;
2) provided by a part two of

Section 2269. Original section/article: 8. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
3) death of a person brought to administrative liability or declaring him (her) decedent in the manner established by the Law;
4) expiration of the term of limitation of execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, a prescription on necessity to pay a fine established by

Section 2270. Original section/article: 890. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code;
5) provided by the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan on coming of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On taxes and other compulsory payments to budget” (Tax Code) into effect.
Footnote.

Section 2271. Original section/article: 889. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2272. Original section/article: 890. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Limitation of execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
Footnote. Title of

Section 2273. Original section/article: 890. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction, the prescription on necessity to pay a fine shall not be subject to execution, if it was not carried into execution within a year from the date of entering into legal force, and for infractions in the field of tax assessment and antimonopoly legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan within five years from the date of its entering into legal force.
2. In case of suspension of the execution of a decree in accordance with

Section 2274. Original section/article: 834. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the running of period of limitation shall be suspended until consideration of a complaint, an appellate petition, protest of a prosecutor.
3. Running of the term of limitation provided in a part one of this Article, shall be revived if the person brought to administrative liability avoids its execution. Calculation of the term of limitation in this case shall be restored from the date of detection of this person.
4. In case of deferral of execution of a decree in accordance with

Section 2275. Original section/article: 888. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, running of the term of limitation shall be suspended until expiration of the term for deferral, and upon execution of the decree by installments, running of the tem of limitation shall be extended for the term of deferral.
Footnote.

Section 2276. Original section/article: 890. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2277. Original section/article: 891. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Completion of the proceeding on execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction
1. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction according to which the sanction is collected in full, shall be returned by a body executing the decree to a judge (body) that issued the decree with a note on collected sanction.
2. The decree on imposition of administrative sanction according to which the execution was not carried out or the execution is carried not in full, shall be returned to a body (civil servant) that issued the decree, drew up a protocol on administrative infraction, in cases and in the manner provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On execution proceeding and status of officers of justice”.
Chapter 52. PROCEDURE FOR EXECUTION OF SEPARATE TYPES
OF ADMINISTRATIVE INFRACTIONS

Section 2278. Original section/article: 892. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on imposition of administrative sanction in form of notification
Footnote. Title of

Section 2279. Original section/article: 892. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
The decree on imposition of administrative sanction in the form of a notification shall be executed by a judge, body (civil servant) that issued the decree by delivering or sending copies of the decree in accordance with

Section 2280. Original section/article: 823. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2281. Original section/article: 892. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2282. Original section/article: 893. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Voluntary execution of a decree on imposition of fine, prescription on necessity to pay a fine
1. Fine shall be subject to payment by a person brought to administrative liability no later than thirty days from the date of entering of the decree on imposition of fine, the prescription on necessity of payment a fine into legal force.
In case of deferral provided by

Section 2283. Original section/article: 888. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, the fine shall be subject to payment by a person brought to administrative liability from the date of expiration of the term for deferral. 
2. A penalty imposed for commitment of administrative infraction shall be paid by an individual or be transferred by a legal entity to the state budget in accordance with the procedures established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 2284. Original section/article: 893. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2285. Original section/article: 894. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compulsory execution of a decree on imposition of a fine on an individual, individual entrepreneur, private notary officer, private court bailiff and advocate, prescription on necessity to pay the fine
Footnote. Title of

Section 2286. Original section/article: 894. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The decree on imposition of a fine or prescription on necessity to pay the fine shall be directed by a court, authorized body (civil servant) to administration of the organization when the person brought to liability works or receives remuneration, pension, scholarship for deduction of the fine amount in compulsory manner from his (her) salary or other incomes. Deduction of the fine shall be carried out within the term not exceeding six months. The priority of recovery of the fine shall be carried out in the manner provided by the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In cases of dismissal of a person brought to administrative liability from work or impossibility to recover a fine from his (her) salary or other incomes, the administration of an organization shall return the decree on imposition of a fine, prescription on necessity to pay the fine to a court, body (civil servant) that issued the decree, within the term of ten days from the date of dismissal or occurrence of the event entailing impossibility of recovery, with specification of new place of work of the person brought to liability (if available), the reasons of impossibility of recovery, as well as with a note on performed deductions (if such were performed).
3. If the individual subjected to fine is not employed or recovery of the fine from salary or other incomes is impossible by other reasons, the decree on imposition of the fine, prescription on necessity to pay the fine shall be directed by a court, authorized body that issued the decree to an officer of justice for compulsory execution in the manner provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. The decree on imposition of a fine on administrative infractions considered by the state revenues bodies, as well as on other administrative infractions in the field of tax assessment in respect of individual entrepreneurs, private notary officers, judicial enforcement agent and advocates shall be executed by the state revenues bodies in the manner established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 2287. Original section/article: 894. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2288. Original section/article: 895. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Compulsory execution of a decree on imposition of a fine on a legal entity
1. The decree on imposition of a fine shall be directed by a court, authorized body (civil servant) to an officer of justice for withdrawal of money from banking account of a legal entity without its consent in the manner established by the civil legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on payment and money transfers on execution proceeding and status of officers of justice.
The decree on imposition of a fine on administrative infractions considered by the state revenues bodies, as well as on other administrative infractions in the field of tax assessment shall be executed by the state revenues bodies in the manner established by the tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. A bank, a branch of a bank that is not a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or an organisation engaged in other types of banking operations shall transfer the amount of the fine to the budget as ordered.
3. In case of absence of money on accounts of a legal entity, the officer of justice shall levy execution upon other property belonging to a debtor in accordance with the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 2289. Original section/article: 895. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2290. Original section/article: 896. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for direction of a decree on imposition of a fine, prescription on necessity to pay the fine for compulsory execution 
Footnote. Title of

Section 2291. Original section/article: 896. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. A resolution on the imposition of a fine or an order on the need to pay a fine shall be sent to the justice authorities, regional chambers of private bailiffs in the manner prescribed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Enforcement Proceedings and the Status of Bailiffs" within ten days after the expiration of the period for voluntary execution of the resolution on the imposition of a fine or an order on the need to pay a fine.
The decree on imposition of a fine or prescription on necessity to pay the fine may be directed for compulsory execution in electronic document which is certifies with electronic digital signature of a judge, civil servant of authorized body.
When sending a resolution on the imposition of a fine or an order on the need to pay a fine to the justice authorities, regional chambers of private bailiffs, information on the failure to receive the fine amount by the state shall be attached to it.
2. The decree on imposition of a fine, prescription on necessity to pay the fine directed for compulsory execution with violation of the requirements of this Code shall be subject to return to the state body that imposed administrative sanction.
3. Return of a decree on imposition of a fine, prescription on necessity to pay the fine to a body that imposed administrative sanction is not an impediment for their repeated direction for compulsory execution with the eliminated shortcomings.
Footnote.

Section 2292. Original section/article: 896. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 18.07.2024 № 127-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2293. Original section/article: 897. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of separate types of administrative sanctions
1. A person who admitted the fact of commitment of an infraction and agreed with payment of a penalty on the basis of notification and (or) notice of appearance at a state revenue authority sent (delivered) by a state revenue authority in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan received, shall pay penalty within ten days after the day following the day of receipt (delivery) of notification or notice at the amount of fifty per cent of the amount of penalty specified in sanction of article of Special Part of this Code.
1-1. The provisions of the first part of this Article relating to the reduction of the amount of the administrative fine shall not apply to administrative offences envisaged by Articles 91 (parts seven and eight), 92 (parts three and four), 92-1 (parts two and three), 266, 275 (parts one, two, 3-1 and five), 278 (parts two and three), 279 (part one), 280, 281 (parts three, four, five and six), 282 (parts three, four, five, six, seven, ten, eleven, twelve and thirteen), 283, 460-1 (parts two and three), 537, 551 of this Code.
2. The documents mentioned in a part one of this Article shall also contain details on date of issuance, position, last name, initials of a civil servant that imposed the sanction, details on a person brought to administrative liability, Article of this Code providing the liability for this infraction, time and place of commission of the administrative infraction, amount of administrative fine, requisite elements for paying the fine.
3. In case of non-performance of the requirement established by a part one of this Article, the administrative infraction proceeding shall be carried out in the manner provided by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2294. Original section/article: 897. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2295. Original section/article: 898. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Completion of proceeding on execution of a decree on imposition of a fine
The decree on imposition of a fine on which recovery of fine is carried out in full, shall be returned to a body (civil servant) that issued the decree with a note on execution.

Section 2296. Original section/article: 899. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on confiscation of a subject that is a tool or subject for commission of administrative infraction, and equally of property received due to commission of administrative infraction
1. The decree of a judge on confiscation of a subject that is a tool or subject for commission of administrative infraction, as well as property including incomes (dividends), money and securities received due to commission of administrative infraction, shall be executed in the manner provided by the legislation by an officer of justice, and on confiscation of weapons, ammunition, special technical means for conduct of special operational investigative measures and encryption-based means of information protection and narcotic drugs – by the internal affairs body.
2. Selling or further use of confiscated subject that is a tool or subject of commission of administrative infraction shall be carried out in the manner established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2297. Original section/article: 900. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies executing a decree on deprivation of the special right
1. The decree of judge on deprivation of the right of operating transport vehicles, with the exception of tractors, self-propelled vehicles and other types of technology shall be executed by civil servants of the internal affairs bodies.
2. The decree of judge on deprivation of the right of operating tractors, self-propelled vehicle or other types of technology shall be executed by civil servants of the bodies carrying out state supervision of technical condition of the self-propelled vehicles and other types of technology.
3. The decree of judge on deprivation of the right of operating vessels, including small size vessels shall be executed by civil servants of the bodies carrying out the state supervision of compliance with the rules of using vessels, including small size vessels.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
5. The decree of judge on deprivation of the right of hunting shall be executed by civil servants of the bodies carrying out the state supervision of compliance with the hunting regulations.
6. The decree of judge on deprivation of the right of bearing and keeping weapons shall be executed by civil servants of the internal affairs bodies.
Footnote.

Section 2298. Original section/article: 900. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2299. Original section/article: 901. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on deprivation of the special right
1. Execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of operating transport vehicles, vessels or other types of technology shall be carried out by withdrawal of driving license respectively for the right to operate vessels, including small size vessels, or certificate of a tractor driver (tractor operator), if the driver, navigator or tractor driver (tractor operator) are deprived of the right of operation of all the types of transport vehicles, vessels (including small size vessels) and other technology.
2. If the driver, navigator or tractor driver (tractor operator) are deprived of the right of operating not all the types of transport vehicles, vessels, including small size vessels, or another technology, it shall be stated in a driving license, certificate for the right of operation of small size vessel or in a certificate of a tractor driver (tractor operator) by which types of transport vehicles, small size vehicles, self-propelled devices they are deprived of the right to operate.
3. Procedure for withdrawal of a certificate for the right of operation of transport vehicles or vessel shall be established by the authorized body.
4. In case of avoidance of a driver (navigator) or a tractor driver (tractor operator) deprived of the right of operation of transport vehicles, vessel or right of operation of a tractor or other self-propelled vehicle from delivery of the driving license, certificate for the right of operating a vessel or certificate of a tractor driver (tractor operator), the internal affairs bodies, bodies carrying out state supervision of compliance with the rules of using the vessels, including small size vessels, as well as bodies carrying out state supervision of technical condition of self-propelled machines and other types of technology shall carry out withdrawal of the driving license, certificate for the right of operating a vessel or certificate of a tractor driver (tractor operator) in established manner.
5. Upon expiration of the term of deprivation of the special right, the withdrawn documents shall be returned to a person subjected to this type of administrative sanction in established manner.

Section 2300. Original section/article: 902. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of hunting
1. Execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of hunting shall be carried out by withdrawal of hunting permit.
2. In case of avoidance of a person deprived of the right of hunting from delivery of hunting permit, the withdrawal of the hunting permit shall be carried out by the bodies carrying out state supervision of compliance with the hunting regulations in established manner.

Section 2301. Original section/article: 903. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of operating radio electronic means or high frequency devices
Footnote.

Section 2302. Original section/article: 903. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 2303. Original section/article: 904. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of bearing and keeping weapons
Execution of a decree on deprivation of the right of bearing and keeping weapons shall be carried out by withdrawal of the relevant certificate and weapons by internal affairs bodies in the manner provided by the legislation.

Section 2304. Original section/article: 905. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity
The decree on deprivation of a permit of an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity or suspension of its validity shall be enforced in the manner established by this Code and legislation on permissions and notifications.

Section 2305. Original section/article: 906. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies executing a decree on deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity
The decree on deprivation of a permit of an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity or suspension of its validity shall be enforced by civil servants of the bodies that issued the permit.

Section 2306. Original section/article: 907. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity
1. Execution of a decree on deprivation of a permit of an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity shall be carried out by withdrawal of the permit and (or) exclusion of the permit from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
2. In case of avoidance of an individual, individual entrepreneur or legal entity from delivery of the permit, the body that issued the permit shall take measures provided by the legislation for withdrawal of the permit and exclusion of the permit from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.

Section 2307. Original section/article: 908. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Calculation of terms of deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity
1. The term of deprivation of a permit or suspension of its validity shall be calculated from the date of entering of a decree on deprivation (suspension of validity) of the permit into legal force.
2. Upon expiry of the term of deprivation of a permit for particular type of activity, the person subjected to this measure of administrative sanction shall obtain a license in the manner established by the legislation.
Upon expiry of the term of validity of a permit, the withdrawn permit shall be returned to a person subjected to this measure of administrative sanction in established manner.
3. The validity of a permit shall be suspended from the date stated in a decree on imposition of administrative sanction and for the term stated there.

Section 2308. Original section/article: 909. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on suspension or prohibition of activity
1. Judgement on imposition of administrative punishment in the form of suspension or prohibition of activities of a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur shall be passed by a judge, authority (executive officer) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions, and shall be subject to execution by the legal entity or the individual entrepreneur immediately after the judgement comes into legal force.
2. During suspension of the activities of a legal entity and an individual entrepreneur, their right to use the money in their bank accounts shall be suspended, with the exception of payments for compensation for harm caused to life and health, collection of alimony, wages and compensation to persons working under an employment contract, social contributions, mandatory pension contributions, mandatory professional pension contributions, payment of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, payment of fines. During the period of suspension of the activities of a public association, it shall be prohibited to use mass media, conduct campaigning and propaganda, organize and hold peaceful assemblies and other mass events, and taking part in elections. If, during the established suspension period the public association eliminated the violation, then after expiry of the period specified in the resolution, the public association resumes its activities.
3. In case of failure to execute voluntary an administrative punishment in the form of suspension or prohibition of activities, imposed by a judge, authority (executive officer) authorized to consider cases on administrative offense, by the founder (executive board, executives) of a legal entity or by the individual entrepreneur, the judgement shall be enforced according to the procedures of enforcement proceeding by an authorized authority.
Footnote.

Section 2309. Original section/article: 909. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 95-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2310. Original section/article: 910. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for execution of a decree on suspension or prohibition of activity
1. Authorized civil servant shall suspend work of organizations, separate enterprises, shall prohibit operation of buildings, constructions, separate premises, warehouses, electric networks, heating devices in part or in full.
2. After receipt of a decision on prohibition of activity (liquidation) of a legal entity, the body carrying out registration of legal entities shall check compliance with the procedure for prohibition of activity (liquidation) provided by the legislation and within ten days shall register termination of activity of the legal entity, whereat the authorized body in the field of state statistics shall be notified.

Section 2311. Original section/article: 910-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Termination of a decree on suspension of validity of a permit (of separate subspecies), also decree on suspension of activity or its separate types 
1. Enforcement of a decision to suspend a licence (or a specific sub-category thereof), as well as a decision to suspend operations or specific types of operations, as specified in

Section 2312. Original section/article: 281. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
(part three), 282 (part five and part twelve), 333 (part two), 426 (part two), 427 (part one), 444 (part five) and 445 (parts one, two, three, four, five, six, 6-1, seven, eight, nine, ten, 10-1 and 10-2), 445-1 (parts one, two, three and four), 462 (part three), 464 (part one), 484 (part one), 485 (part one), 485-1 (part one), 489-1 (part two) of this Code, may be terminated early by a judge, a competent authority (official), which imposed the relevant administrative penalty, based on a request from the person subject to administrative liability or their representative (legal representative) in cases where it is established that the circumstances that served as the basis for imposing the penalty have been resolved.
2. The court, the body (civil servant) that imposed an administrative sanction in the form of on suspension of validity of a permit (separate subspecies), as well as suspension of activity or its separate types on the day of receipt of the petition, within two days shall direct a request to draw up a protocol on an administrative infraction, on giving an opinion on the elimination of violations to a civil servant authorized in accordance with

Section 2313. Original section/article: 804. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code.
3. Upon receiving of a relevant request for the purpose of preparing a conclusion, the civil servant shall verify the elimination of the circumstances that served as the ground for imposition an administrative sanction provided by part one of this Article.
The conclusion shall be submitted in written form within five days from receipt of a request.
Specified conclusion is not mandatory for a court, body (civil servant), but disagreement with the conclusion must be motivated. 
4. The petition shall be considered by a court, body (civil servant), that appointed an administrative sanction provided for by part one of this Article, within ten days from the date of receipt of a petition in the procedure provided by Chapter 44 of this Code. Herewith, a person shall be summoned, that is brought to administrative liability or his representative (legal representative), who shall have the right to give explanations and submit documents for participation in considering of a petition.
5. After examination of the submitted documents, the court, body (civil servant) a decree on satisfying or on refusal from their satisfaction shall be issued.
6. The decree on pre-term termination of execution an administrative sanction in the form of suspension of validity of a permit (separate subspecies), as well as suspension of activity or its separate types shall included details provided by

Section 2314. Original section/article: 822. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code, as well as the date of renewal of validity of a permit (separate subspecies) or renewal of previously suspended activity.
7. The decision on the refusal in satisfaction of the petition on early termination of execution an administrative sanction in the form of suspension of validity of a permit (separate subspecies), as well as suspension of activity or its separate types, shall not be subject to appeal.
Footnote. Chapter 52 as amended by

Section 2315. Original section/article: 910-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 137-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 117-VIII (shall come into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 247-VIII of 30.12.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2316. Original section/article: 911. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on compulsory demolition of a building
1. The court decree on compulsory demolition of illegally constructing or constructed building shall be enforced by a person in respect of whom this administrative sanction is issued.
2. In case of failure to execute administrative sanction imposed by a court in the form of compulsory demolition of illegally constructing or constructed building on a voluntary basis, the decree shall be enforced in the manner of execution proceeding by the authorized body.

Section 2317. Original section/article: 912. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Costs for execution of a decree on compulsory demolition of a building
Compulsory demolition of illegally constructed or constructing building shall be carried out on account of an offender.

Section 2318. Original section/article: 913. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on administrative arrest
1. The court decree on administrative arrest shall be enforced by internal affairs bodies and bodies of military police in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Persons subjected to administrative arrest shall be detained under custody at the places determined by internal affairs bodies. Upon execution of a decree on administrative arrest, the arrested persons shall be subject to personal inspection.
Military servants shall serve administrative arrest in detention quarters.
3. Service of administrative arrest shall be carried out in accordance with the rules established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 2319. Original section/article: 914. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Consequences of avoidance from serving administrative arrest
If the person subjected to administrative arrest willfully leaves the place of his (her) service until expiration of the term of administrative arrest, the served sentence may be disregarded in term of administrative arrest in full or in part by a judge’s decree. By this, the judge shall establish beginning of new term for serving administrative arrest.

Section 2320. Original section/article: 914-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Enforcement of a court ruling on community service
1. A court ruling on the imposition of community service on a person shall be enforced after it becomes final. 
2. A court ruling on community service that has entered into legal force shall be sent by the court for enforcement to the local executive authority at the place of residence of the person subject to administrative liability.
3. The types of public works and the list of organisations where public works should be undertaken shall be decided by local executive bodies. 
4. Local executive bodies shall:
1) within three working days of receiving the court order, summon the offender and fill in their personal details;
2) clarify to the offender the procedure and conditions for performing community service;
3) within three working days of receiving the court order, send a notification to the internal affairs authorities that it has been accepted for enforcement;
4) within three working days of receiving the court order, send a notification to the organisation that the person has been referred to them for community service;
5) draw up a schedule and frequency for the performance of community service;
6) immediately notify the internal affairs authorities upon discovering that an offender has evaded community service;
7) within three working days of the execution of the court order imposing community service on the person, send a notification to the court.
5. Within three working days of receiving the notification mentioned in sub-paragraph 6) of part four of this Article, the internal affairs authorities shall review the notification and take measures as set out in this Code.
6. An organisation shall:
1) draw up reports on work completed and keeps a record of hours worked;
2) submit a quarterly report on the performance of public works to the local executive authorities.
7. A person who has been imposed an administrative penalty in the form of community service must:
comply with the conditions and procedure for performing community service established by this Code;
perform community service organised by local executive bodies;
notify local executive bodies of any change of residence. 
8. The duration of public works shall not include the time spent by a person travelling to and from the place of public works.
Footnote. Chapter 52 is supplemented by

Section 2321. Original section/article: 914-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in compliance with Law of RK № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be enforced since 01.09.2025).

Section 2322. Original section/article: 915. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree in a part of compensation of property damage
The decree on a case on administrative infraction in a part of compensation of property damage subjected to recovery in accordance with

Section 2323. Original section/article: 59. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall be enforced in the manner established by the legislation.

Section 2324. Original section/article: 916. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on administrative expulsion of foreign persons and stateless persons from the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Execution of a decree on administrative expulsion of foreign persons and stateless persons from the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be carried out by controlled independent departure of expelled person from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The enforcement of a decision on administrative expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan of foreigners or stateless persons shall be suspended in the cases specified in part four of

Section 2325. Original section/article: 834. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code. 
Costs for expulsion shall be incurred by expelled illegal immigrants, individuals or legal entities that invited the immigrant to the Republic of Kazakhstan. In cases of absence or insufficiency of funds of mentioned persons for covering the costs for expulsion, the financing of the relevant events shall be performed on account of budget funds.
In accordance with international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, the organization responsible for transportation of persons from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan that entered without the right of entry is the transport organization that brought these persons.
2. The persons that did not execute a court decision on expulsion and that did not leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the term stated in the decision, shall be subject to expulsion in compulsory manner under the court decision.
3. If the transfer of expelled person to a representative of foreign state is not provided by the treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan with mentioned state, the expulsion shall be carried out at the place determined by the Frontier Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Upon expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons from the check point through the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the authorities of a foreign state to (through) the territory of which the mentioned person is expelled shall be notified, if the expulsion is provided by a treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan with mentioned state.
5. Execution of a decree on administrative expulsion shall be drawn up in the form of bilateral or unilateral act.
Footnote.

Section 2326. Original section/article: 916. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall be put into effect sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 2327. Original section/article: 917. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Bodies, carrying execution of a decree on administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons from the Republic of Kazakhstan
The decree on administrative expulsion of foreign persons or stateless persons from the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be executed:
1) by the Border Service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon commission of infractions provided by Articles 510 (part four), 513 (part two), 514 (part two), 516 (part two), 517 (parts two, four, six, seven) of this Code;
2) by internal affairs authorities when committing offences referred to in Articles 109, 443-1 (part two), 449 (part three), 490 (parts three and seven), 495 (part two), 496 (parts two and three), 510 (part four), 517 (parts two, four, five, six and seven) of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2328. Original section/article: 917. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 127-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2016 № 41-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); № 155-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall become effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 2329. Original section/article: 918. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of a decree on testing of knowledge of road traffic rules
The decree on testing of knowledge of road traffic rules shall be enforced by internal affair bodies in the manner established by the legislation.

Section 2330. Original section/article: 918-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Execution of Decree on testing of knowledge of save handling rules for civil and service weapon 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 2331. Original section/article: 918-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
The Decree on testing of knowledge of save handling rules for civil and service weapon rules shall be enforced by the Internal Affair Agencies in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. The Code as amended by

Section 2332. Original section/article: 918-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 237-VI dated 18.03.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 53. FINAL PROVISIONS

Section 2333. Original section/article: 919. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Procedure for application of this Code 
1. The decrees on a case on administrative infraction of a court, body (civil servants) authorized to consider cases on administrative infractions issued and not executed before entering of this Code into force for the purpose of their bringing in compliance with

Section 2334. Original section/article: 5. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code establishing retroactive effect of the Law on administrative infractions in the case when the Law mitigates or aggravates the liability for an administrative infraction or otherwise improves the position of a person that committed the administrative infraction, shall be subject to review. Review of previously issued decrees shall be carried out by a judge of the court, civil servant of the body, that issued the decree upon application of a person in respect of whom it was issued.
2. Judicial acts, which issued before 1 January 2016, may be appealed, protested in manner, established by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 2335. Original section/article: 919. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.10.2015 № 378-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 2336. Original section/article: 919-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Suspension of the article of this Code, as well as its individual norms 
Footnote. Title of

Section 2337. Original section/article: 919-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021). 
Validity of

Section 2338. Original section/article: 329. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code is suspended till 1 January 2018.
The effect of part two of

Section 2339. Original section/article: 443-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
of this Code shall be suspended until January 1, 2024.
Footnote. Chapter 53 as amended by

Section 2340. Original section/article: 919-1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.04.2016 № 491-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.02.2023 № 195-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 23.12.2023 № 50-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 2341. Original section/article: 920. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
Order of entering of this Code into force
1. From the date of entering of this Code into force, it shall be deemed to have lost force:
Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative infractions dated 30 January 2001 (The bulletin of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2001, № 5-6,

Section 2342. Original section/article: 126. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 128, 129; 2009, № 2-3,

Section 2343. Original section/article: 70. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76; № 17,

Section 2344. Original section/article: 121. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 122, 125, 129, 130, 133, 134; 2010, № 1-2,

Section 2345. Original section/article: 9. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 11, 13, 14, 16; № 3,

Section 2346. Original section/article: 21. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 22, 25, 26, 27; № 4,

Section 2347. Original section/article: 77. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 78, 79, 81, 82; № 16,

Section 2348. Original section/article: 44. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, 46, 49; the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10 June 2014 “On amendments and supplements in several legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issues of counteractions of legitimization (laundering) of incomes received by illegal means, and financing of terrorism” published in newspapers “Yegemen Kazakhstan” and “Kazakhstanskaya pravda” on 14 June 2014.
2. This Code shall be enforced from 1 January 2015, with exception:
1) Part 2-1

Section 2349. Original section/article: 1. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, which shall be enforced on July 1, 2020;
1-1) subparagraphs 4) and 8) part five

Section 2350. Original section/article: 281. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, which shall be enforced:
for producers of oil products since January 1, 2017;
for wholesale suppliers of oil products, importers, retail sellers of oil products, oil suppliers:
since January 1, 2019 – for fuel filling station located within the capital city, cities of republican, regional and district status;
since January 1, 2021– for fuel filling stations not indicated in sub-paragraph four of this subparagraph;
2) subparagraph 6) part three of

Section 2351. Original section/article: 282. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
, which shall be enforced from 1 January 2016.
Footnote.

Section 2352. Original section/article: 920. Source: Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offences.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 272-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 09.04.2016 № 500-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 30.12.2019 № 300-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
The President 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
N. NAZARBAYEV 
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
