Kazakhstan source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Category: Procedure
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/K1500000377
Note: Official English reference text from Adilet.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
GENERAL PROVISIONS Chapter 1. CIVIL PROCEDURAL LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Civil legal proceedings legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The procedure of legal proceedings in civil cases on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, constitutional laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this Code, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and generally recognized principles and norms of international law. The provisions of other laws regulating the procedure of civil proceedings are subject to inclusion in this Code.
2. International contractual and other obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as regulatory decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan are an integral part of civil procedural law.
3. Civil legal proceedings legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan establishes the procedure for consideration of cases pertaining to disputes arising out of civil, family, employment, housing, financial, economic, land and other law relations as well as special proceedings cases.
4. The procedure for considering cases on the return of illegally acquired assets to the state on the grounds provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state" is carried out by the court according to the general rules provided for in this Code, with the specifics established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state".
Footnote.

Section 3. Original section/article: 1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 4. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application of law provisions of preferential force in civil legal proceedings 
1. Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan has the highest legal effect and direct application in the whole territory of the Republic. In case of contradictions between provisions of this Law and Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan the provisions of the Constitution shall apply.
2. In case of contradiction between provisions of this Law and Constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan the provisions of the Constitutional law shall apply. In case of contradiction between provisions of this Law and other laws the provisions of this Law shall apply.
3. International agreements ratified the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have priority over this Law and shall apply directly except for cases when an international agreement implies that its application requires issue of a law.

Section 5. Original section/article: 3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Validity of civil legal proceedings law in the course of time 
1. Civil legal proceedings shall be carried out in accordance with the civil legal proceedings law effective as of the moment of holding of proceedings or adopting of a decision after proceedings. 
2. Civil legal proceedings law, which imposes new obligations, waives or derogates rights belonging to parties of the proceedings, limits application thereof by additional conditions, shall not have retroactive effect.
3. Admissibility of evidence is determined in accordance with law applicable at the moment of receiving thereof.
Chapter 2. OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES OF CIVIL LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Section 6. Original section/article: 4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Objectives of civil proceedings 
The objectives of civil proceedings are the protection and restoration of violated or disputed rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, the state and legal entities, compliance with the rule of law in civil turnover, ensuring full, timely, fair consideration and resolution of the case, promoting peaceful settlement of the dispute, prevention of offenses and formation of a respectful attitude to the law and the court in society.
Footnote.

Section 7. Original section/article: 4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Principles of civil legal proceedings 
1. Civil legal proceedings shall be held on the basis of principles stated in this chapter.
2. Violation of principles of civil legal proceedings in terms of nature and significance thereof shall entail waiver of issued court rulings.

Section 9. Original section/article: 6. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legitimacy 
1. Court in case of consideration and settlement of civil cases shall strictly comply with requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, constitutional laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this Law, other regulatory legal acts, international agreements of the Republic of Kazakhstan subject to application.
2. Courts are not entitled to apply laws and other regulatory legal acts that infringe on the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution. If the court finds that a law or other regulatory legal act subject to application infringes on the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution, it is obliged to suspend the proceedings and apply to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a recommendation on recognition of this act unconstitutional. Upon receipt by the court of the final decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the proceedings in the case are resumed.
3. Court having found out an act of state or other authority contradicting with a law or an act issued with overreach of powers the court shall apply provisions of law.
4. In case of lack of law provisions regulating disputable legal relations the court shall apply law provisions regulating similar relations, in case of lack of such provisions the court shall settle the dispute based on general principles and meaning of the Republic of Kazakhstan legislation.
5. If law or agreement between the parties to a dispute doe not stipulate settlement of the relevant disputes in court the court shall settle such issues based on criteria of justice and reasonability.
Footnote.

Section 10. Original section/article: 6. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 11. Original section/article: 7. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Administration of justice only by court 
1. Justice concerning civil cases shall be administered only by court according to rules established by this Law.
2. Assuming of court powers by whosoever shall entail responsibility provided for by law.
3. Rulings of extraordinary as well as of other illegally established courts shall not have legal effect and shall not be subject to enforcement.
4. Rulings of court, which performs civil legal proceedings concerning a case out of its jurisdiction, which has overreached its powers or has otherwise materially violated principles of civil legal proceedings stipulated by this Law, shall be illegal and shall be subject to waiver.
5. Rulings of court concerning a civil case may be checked and re-considered only by the relevant courts according to procedure stipulated by this Law.

Section 12. Original section/article: 8. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial protection of rights, liberties and legal interests of a person 
1. Everyone shall be entitled to address the court according to procedure established by this Law with the purpose of protecting violated or disputed rights, liberties or legal interests.
2. State authorities within their competence, citizens and legal entities shall be entitled according to procedure established by this Law to address a court with an application about protection of violated or disputed legal interests of other persons or an indefinite scope of persons.
Prosecutor shall be entitled to address a court with a lawsuit (application) with the purpose of performing obligations imposed on him and with the purpose of protecting rights of citizens and legal entities, public and state interests.
3. Court jurisdiction stipulated for them by law may not be changed to anyone without their consent.
4. Refusal from the right to address court is invalid if it contradicts the law or violates anyone's rights, liberties or legal interests.
5. Lawsuit (application) may be filed to court in writing or in electronic form with consideration of peculiarities stipulated by this Law.
6. If law or an agreement provides for pre-judicial procedure for dispute settlement for certain category of cases address to court may be after compliance with such a procedure.
7. State bodies shall exercise the right to bring legal action affecting the rights and legitimate interests of investors included in the register of investors, after mandatory consultation with the prosecutor.
The procedure for approval shall be established by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 13. Original section/article: 8. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 149-VIII of 30.12.2024 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 14. Original section/article: 9. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Respect of honor and dignity, business reputation of persons, who are parties to a case 
1. In the course of civil proceedings it is prohibited to take actions humiliating honor or dignity, derogating business reputation of a person participating in civil proceedings.
2. Moral damage inflicted on a physical individual, losses inflicted on a physical individual or a legal entity in the course of civil proceedings by illegal actions of state authorities and officials as well as moral damage related to committing of actions indicated in the first part of this article by other persons shall be subject to indemnification according to procedure established by law.

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Privacy protection. Confidentiality of correspondence, telephone conversations, post, telegraph and other messages 
Private life, personal and family secret are under protection of law.
Everyone shall have the right to confidentiality of personal deposits and savings, correspondence, telephone conversations, mail, telegraph and other messages. Limitations of this right in the course of civil legal proceedings shall be allowed only in cases and as per procedure directly provided by law.

Section 16. Original section/article: 11. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inviolability of property. 
1. Property title is guaranteed by law. Nobody may be deprived of their property otherwise than by ruling of court.
2. Arrest of property with the purpose of securing a lawsuit may be performed on basis and according to procedure stipulated by this Law.
3. Preliminary interim measures in the form of seizure of the assets of the entity that is the owner shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state".
Footnote.

Section 17. Original section/article: 11. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 18. Original section/article: 12. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Independence of judges. 
1. Judge in the course of justice administration shall be independent and shall obey only the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and law.
2. Judges consider and settle civil cases under conditions excluding any outside influence on them. Any intervention in justice administration by judges shall be prohibited and shall entail responsibility established by law. Judges shall not be reporting in specific cases.
3. Guarantees of independence of judges are established by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and by law.

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Equality of all before the law and in court. 
1. Justice in civil cases shall be administered on the basis of principle of equality of all before the law and court.
2. In the course of civil legal proceedings none of:
citizens shall be preferred, nobody of them may be discriminated for origin, social, job title and financial situation, sex, race, nationality, language, attitude towards religion, convictions, place of residence or for any other circumstances;
legal entities shall be preferred and none of them may be discriminated for place of location, organizational-legal form, subordination, form of ownership and other circumstances.
3. Conditions of civil legal proceedings in regard to persons, who have legal immunity against civil-legal liability, shall be defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by this Law, laws and international agreements ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 20. Original section/article: 14. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Language of legal proceedings. 
1. Legal proceedings regarding civil cases shall be held in Kazakh language; Russian language shall be officially used equally with the Kazakh language; also other languages shall be used in cases established by law.
2. Language of court legal proceedings shall be determined by ruling of court depending on the language, in which a lawsuit (application) has been filed to court. Legal proceedings concerning the same civil case shall be administered in the language of legal proceedings, which has been chosen initially.
Upon written petition of both parties the court shall be entitled to change the language of legal proceedings through a ruling at the stage of preparing the case for court hearings.
If in the course of preparation for consideration of the case in the first instance court it has been found out that claimant does not speak the language, in which his representative has filed the lawsuit (application), then upon a written petition of the claimant the court shall issue a ruling about change of the language of legal proceedings.
3. Persons participating in the case who do not speak or do not speak enough the language in which the proceedings are conducted, are explained and provided with the right to make statements, give explanations and testimony, file petitions, file complaints, challenge judicial acts, get acquainted with the case materials, speak in court in their native language or another language which they speak; use the services of an interpreter, a sign language specialist for persons with hearing disabilities free of charge, in accordance with the procedure established by this Code.
4. In the course of civil legal proceedings the persons, who do not speak the language of court hearings, shall be provided by court with free translation of case documents, which they need due to law requirements. The persons, who participate in the case, shall be provided by court with free translation to the language of legal proceedings of that part of court hearings, which is held in another language.
5. Court documents, which are requested from the case in writing by a person, who participates in the case and does not speak the language of legal proceedings, shall be handed in to them in translation to their native language or other language, which they speak.
6. To documents composed not in the language of legal proceedings to be submitted by the parties and other persons participating in the case upon completion of preparation of the case for legal proceedings a translation in the language of legal proceedings shall be attached.
Footnote.

Section 21. Original section/article: 14. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 22. Original section/article: 15. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Adversarial principle and equality of rights of the parties 
1. Civil legal proceedings shall be carried out based on the adversarial principle and equality of rights of the parties. This law vests in the parties participating in the civil legal proceedings equal opportunities to defend their standpoint.
2. In the course of civil legal proceedings the parties shall choose their standpoint, ways and means for defending thereof independently and irrespective of court and other persons participating in the case.
3. The court, while maintaining objectivity and impartiality, shall manage the process, shall create the necessary conditions for the parties to exercise their procedural rights to a full and objective examination of the circumstances of the case.
The court shall explain to the entities participating in the case their rights and obligations, warn about the consequences of committing or not performing procedural actions, clarify their legal positions and arguments, discuss the circumstances of the case with them and, in the cases provided for by this Code, assist them in exercising their rights.
The court shall base its decision only on the evidence, participation in the study of which was ensured on equal grounds for each party.
4. The court, on a reasoned petition of a party or its initiative, shall take measures to collect and study the case materials, verify the validity of the arguments of the parties and the reliability of the evidence provided to the court, as well as perform other actions aimed at achieving the objectives of civil proceedings.
5. The court shall show equal and respectful attitude towards the parties.
Footnote.

Section 23. Original section/article: 15. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 24. Original section/article: 16. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Assessment of evidence according to inner conviction 
1. Judge shall assess evidence according to his inner conviction based on impersonal, comprehensive and complete consideration of aggregate evidence available in the case being governed in this situation by law and conscience.
2. No circumstances shall have pre-determined effect for the court.

Section 25. Original section/article: 17. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Relief from obligation to give testimony. 
1. Nobody shall be obliged to give testimony against themselves, their husband (wife) and close relatives, the scope of which is determined by law.
2. Religious ministers shall not be obliged to testify against persons, who placed confidence in them during confession.
3. In cases stipulated by the first and second parts of this article the indicated persons shall be entitled to refuse from giving testimony and may not be drawn to liability.

Section 26. Original section/article: 18. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of rights to professional legal assistance. 
1. Everyone shall have the right to receiving professional legal assistance in the course of civil legal proceedings in accordance with provisions of this Law.
2. In cases stipulated by law legal assistance shall be provided free of charge.

Section 27. Original section/article: 19. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Publicity of legal proceedings. 
1. Hearings of civil cases in all judicial instances shall be held open. Court rulings shall be declared publicly. 
2. Under the law, cases shall be heard and resolved in closed court hearing, including the announcement of a decision that contains information constituting state secrets, as well as cases involving the adoption of a child.
Upon the motion of a person participating in the case or upon the initiative of the court, a civil case may be heard and resolved in closed court hearing, if it is necessary to ensure the inviolability of private life, the preservation of personal, family, commercial or other secrets protected by law, or if there are other circumstances that prevent open hearings, as well as in the case provided for by paragraph four of

Section 28. Original section/article: 188. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. Personal correspondence and other personal messages may be announced in an open court hearing only upon consent of persons, between whom such correspondence has taken place and to whom such personal messages concern. In case of unavailability of such a consent correspondence and messages shall be announced and studied in a closed court hearing.
The indicated rules shall be applied during study of audio and video records, photos and motion picture records and other data on electronic, digital and other tangible media containing data of personal nature.
4. In the course of case consideration in a closed court hearing the following persons shall be present: persons who participate in the case, their representatives, in necessary cases also witnesses, experts, specialists, translators, who are warned by court of responsibility for disclosure of data indicated in part two of this article.
5. Citizens younger than sixteen years shall not be allowed to the hall of legal proceedings if they are not persons, who participate in the case or witnesses.
6. Hearing of a case in closed court proceedings shall be held in compliance with all rules established by this Law.
7. Persons participating in the case and other persons including representatives of mass media present in open court proceedings shall have the right to take notes in the course of court hearings, record it by means of audio recording and digital media from seats occupied by them in the hall. Motion picture and photo shooting, video record, live radio and television broadcast, video broadcast in the Internet information-communication system are allowed in legal proceedings hall upon permission from court and with consideration of opinion of persons participating in the case. This shall be stated in the ruling of court, which shall be included into the minutes of court hearings. These activities shall not interfere with regular course of court hearings and their duration may be limited by court.
8. Court shall issue a ruling concerning legal proceedings on the case held in a closed court hearing concerning whole or a part of legal proceedings, which ruling shall be included into the minutes of court hearing.
9. Legally effective court rulings shall be published on the Internet-resource of court and may be publicly discussed with consideration of limitations established by part two of this article and other laws.
10. Information about addresses filed to court concerning civil cases under court consideration shall be subject to publicity and communication to proceedings participants through posting of this information on an official Internet-resource of court.
Footnote.

Section 29. Original section/article: 19. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 30. Original section/article: 20. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of safety during court hearings. 
1. Legal proceedings concerning a case shall be held under conditions ensuring regular work of court and safety of persons present in court hearing hall. Maintaining of public order in the hall during court hearings shall be ensured by court bailiff.
2. With the purpose of ensuring safety of judge and citizens present in court hearings hall the chairperson may issue an order about security check of persons, who desire to be present during legal proceedings including examining of their identity documents, personal search and search of things carried by them.

Section 31. Original section/article: 21. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Binding power of court rulings. 
1. Court of first instance shall issue court acts concerning civil cases in form of court orders, resolutions, rulings, ordinances.
Court of appeal, cassation instances shall issue court acts in form of rulings and ordinances.
The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopts judicial acts in the form of resolutions.
2. Legally effective court acts as well as orders, demands, instructions, summons, requests and other addresses of courts and judges in the course of justice administration shall be binding for all state authorities, local government authorities, legal entities, officials, citizens and shall be subject to enforcement in the whole territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial acts based on a law or other regulatory legal act, which is recognized by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan as unconstitutional, are not subject to execution.
3. Failure to enforce court acts as well as other disrespect towards court shall entail responsibility provided for by law.
4. Binding power of a court act does not deprive concerned persons, who have not participated in case, of opportunity of addressing the court for protection of violated or disputed rights, liberties and legal interests.
Footnote.

Section 32. Original section/article: 21. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 33. Original section/article: 22. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Right to appeal against court rulings. 
Court rulings may be appealed against according to procedure established by this Law by persons participating in the case as well as by persons, whose rights and obligations are affected by court rulings.
Chapter 3. JURISDICTION AND COMPETENCE

Section 34. Original section/article: 23. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court jurisdiction over civil cases 
1. Courts according to procedure of civil legal proceedings shall consider and settle cases about protection of violated or disputed rights, liberties and legal interests if protection thereof is not carried out otherwise in accordance with this Law.
2. Courts shall have jurisdiction over litigation civil cases concerning disputes resulting from civil, family, employment, housing, financial, economic, land and other legal relations.
3. The courts shall have jurisdiction over cases of special claim proceedings provided for by this Code.
4. Courts shall have jurisdiction over special proceedings cases, categories of which are stipulated by this Law.
5. Courts shall have jurisdiction over cases with participation of foreigners, persons without citizenship, foreign organizations as well as with participation of international organizations if it has not otherwise been stipulated by law, international agreements ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan or agreement between the parties.
6. Courts shall have jurisdiction over cases about recognition and enforcement of resolutions, orders of foreign courts and arbitration resolutions.
7. Courts shall have jurisdiction over cases about cancellation of arbitration resolutions and about bringing of such resolutions to compulsory enforcement.
8. Also other categories of civil cases may be referred to court jurisdiction in accordance with law.
9. Lawsuits about exemption from property arrest (exclusion from inventory) regarding property of persons shall not be subject to consideration as per civil legal proceedings procedure, if arrest has been imposed by:
1) criminal prosecution authority in the course of criminal case investigation;
2) based on sentence (resolution) of court about forfeiture of property, which specifies things subject to forfeiture as well as turning to state income of property gained illegally or purchased for money received illegally as well as which property is a means or device for committing of a criminal offense.
3) on the basis of court resolution about forfeiture of a thing or means for committing of an administrative offense.
Legitimacy of actions of the authority, which is in charge of criminal process, a case of administrative offense concerning issues pertaining to imposing of arrest, forfeiture, turning of property to state income shall be subject to examination as per procedure established by Criminal-procedural law of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Republic of Kazakhstan Law on administrative law offenses.
Footnote.

Section 35. Original section/article: 23. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 36. Original section/article: 24. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Settlement of dispute (conflict) according to mediation procedure or participative procedure. Submission of the dispute for arbitration, the court of the Astana International Financial Center 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 37. Original section/article: 24. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
Dispute (conflict) subject to court jurisdiction arisen out of civil-legal relations upon written consent of the parties may be settled as per mediation procedure, participative procedure or transfer of dispute for consideration by arbitration, when it is not prohibited by law.
Footnote.

Section 38. Original section/article: 24. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 39. Original section/article: 25. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Precedence of court jurisdiction. 
1. In case of unifying several interrelated requirements, some of which are in jurisdiction of court, the other ones are in jurisdiction of non-judicial authorities all demands shall be considered in court.
2. In case of doubt in interpretation or of availability of collision between laws concerning jurisdiction of certain dispute it shall be considered by court.

Section 40. Original section/article: 26. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Civil cases under jurisdiction of district (city) courts and courts with equal status. 
Civil cases shall be considered and resolved by district (city) and equivalent courts, except for cases provided for by Part 1-2 of

Section 41. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 42. Original section/article: 26. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 43. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of civil cases to specialized courts, specialized compositions of the court and the court 
Footnote. The title of

Section 44. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as reworded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 291-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from July 1, 2021).
1. Specialized inter-district economic courts shall consider and settle civil cases concerning property and non-property disputes, in which participate physical individuals, who carry out individual entrepreneurship activity without foundation of a legal entity, participate legal entities as well as concerning corporate disputes except for cases, which fall to jurisdiction of other court according to law.
To corporate disputes shall be referred disputes, in which participate commercial organization, association (union) of commercial organizations, association (union) of commercial organizations and (or) individual entrepreneurs, non-profit organization, which has status of self-governed organization in accordance with laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) its shareholders (participants, members) including former ones (hereinafter referred to as corporate disputes) related to:
1) creation, reorganization and liquidation of a legal entity;
2) ownership of joint stock companies' shares, of shares in charter capital of economic partnerships, equity interests of cooperatives members, establishing of encumbrances thereof and realization of rights resulting therefrom including recognition of transactions with them as invalid except for disputes arising in connection with partition of inheritable property or partition of common property of spouses, which includes joint stock company shares, shares in charter capital of economic partnerships, equity interests of cooperatives' members;
3) demands for indemnification of losses inflicted on legal entity by actions (omissions) of officials, founders, shareholders, participants (hereinafter referred to as shareholders of legal entity) and other persons;
4) recognition of transactions as invalid and (or) application of consequences of invalidity of such transactions;
5) appointment or election, termination, suspension of powers and responsibility of persons, who are or were members of legal entity's management body as well as disputes arising out of civil legal relations between such persons and legal entity in connection with execution, termination, suspension of their powers;
6) emission of securities;
7) keeping of a system of registers of security holders with consideration of title in shares and other securities as well as disputes related to placement and (or) circulation of securities;
8) recognition of state registration of shares emission as invalid;
9) convening and holding of general meeting of shareholders of legal entity and decision s adopted there;
10) appealing against decision s, actions (omissions) of legal entity's executive bodies.
1-1. Specialized inter-district economic courts shall also consider cases on the restructuring of financial organizations and organizations that are part of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and are not financial organizations, in cases provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, cases on debt restructuring, rehabilitation and bankruptcy of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities, as well as their liquidation without initiating bankruptcy proceedings.
1-2. The specialized inter-district economic court of the capital considers civil cases on investment disputes, except for cases under the jurisdiction of the specialized inter-district administrative court of the capital, as well as claims of state bodies against investors related to the investor's investment activity, with the participation of:
1) a foreign legal entity (its branch, representative office) carrying out entrepreneurial activities in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) a legal entity established with foreign participation in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, fifty or more per cent of voting shares (stakes in the authorized capital) of which belong to a foreign investor;
3) investors in the presence of a concluded contract with the state for the implementation of investments.
2. Military courts shall consider civil cases if one of the parties is a serviceman, military administration body, military unit, except for cases within the jurisdiction of other specialized courts.
3. Specialized inter-district juvenile courts consider and resolve civil cases on disputes on the dissolution of marriage between spouses with common minor children, the division of property (if there are minor children), on determining the place of residence of the child, including when the child leaves the republic with one of the parents for permanent residence; determining the order of communication of a parent, close relatives with a child living separately from them; taking away a child from other persons, not on the basis of the law; on the deprivation (restriction) and restoration (cancellation of restrictions) of parental rights; on the adoption (adoption) of a child and its cancellation, recognition of adoption as invalid; on the referral of minors to special educational organizations or educational organizations with a special maintenance regime; on disputes arising from custody and guardianship (patronage) over minors; on establishing paternity and collecting alimony; on applications for the restriction or deprivation of a minor between the ages of fourteen and eighteen of the right to independently dispose his income; on declaring a minor fully capable (emancipation); on changing the amount of alimony, on exemption from alimony, on payment of alimony arrears collected for the maintenance of minor children; on protection of labor, inheritance, housing rights of the minors; on the return of a child illegally transferred to the Republic of Kazakhstan or held in the Republic of Kazakhstan or on the exercise of access rights in respect of such a child on the basis of an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan; on compensation for damage caused jointly by minors and adults, including with the participation of incapacitated or disabled adults.
Specialized inter-district juvenile courts consider and resolve civil cases on disputes affecting the rights and legitimate interests of minors.
At the request of the legal representatives of a minor, cases referred to the jurisdiction of a specialized inter-district juvenile court may be considered or may be transferred to a district (municipal) court at the place of residence (location) of the child, with the exception of cases under the jurisdiction of district (municipal) courts located within cities of republican significance and the capital, regional centers. The petition may be filed before the completion of the preparation of the case for trial.
4. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021). 
5. Other disputes resulting from legal relations with participation of an investor and not pertaining to investment activity as well as disputes with participation of investor subject to consideration as per simplified proceedings shall be referred to jurisdiction of district (city) courts and courts with equal status in accordance with jurisdiction stipulated by chapter 3 of this Law.
Footnote.

Section 45. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Republic of Kazakhstan Law №91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be brought to effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 210-VI dated 28.12.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 290-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 291-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (effective from 01.09.2023).

Section 46. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of civil cases to regional and equivalent courts
A regional or equivalent court may, with the consent of the parties, request, take into its proceedings, consider and decide by the rules of the court of first instance one of the homogeneous cases pending before the district (city) courts and courts equivalent thereto in that region.”;
Footnote. Chapter 3 as supplemented by

Section 47. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
under Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 48. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of civil cases to the court of cassation for civil cases 
The court of cassation for civil cases (hereinafter referred to as the court of cassation) may, with the consent of the parties, claim, take into its proceedings, consider and resolve, according to the rules of the court of first instance, one of the homogeneous cases pending before district (city), regional and equivalent courts.
Footnote. Chapter 3 is supplemented by

Section 49. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 50. Original section/article: 28. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan over civil cases. 
Footnote.

Section 51. Original section/article: 28. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 52. Original section/article: 28-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of civil cases to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. Chapter 3 as supplemented by

Section 53. Original section/article: 28-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, in obedience to Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall go into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication); is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 54. Original section/article: 29. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing of a lawsuit at the place of defendant's location. 
1. Lawsuit shall be filed to court at the place of defendant's residence.
Place of residence of a physical individual including the one carrying out individual entrepreneurship activity without foundation of a legal entity shall be determined as per rules provided for by the Republic of Kazakhstan Civil Code.
2. Lawsuit against a legal entity shall be filed to court at the place of legal entity location in accordance with foundation documents and (or) address included into the National register of business identification numbers. Lawsuit against an organization without formation of a legal entity shall be filed at the place of location thereof.

Section 55. Original section/article: 30. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction at option of claimant. 
1. Lawsuit towards defendant, whose place of residence is unknown or who does not have a place of residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan, may be filed at the place of location of his real estate or at the last known place of its residence.
2. Lawsuit to legal entity may be filed also at the place of its property location.
3. Lawsuit resulting from operation of a branch or representative office of legal entity may be filed also at the place of branch or representative office location.
4. Lawsuits about establishment of fatherhood and recovery of alimonies may be filed by claimant at the place of her residence.
5. Lawsuits about indemnification of damage inflicted by permanent injury or other health damage as well as inflicted by death of bread winner may be filed by claimant at the place of her residence or at the place of damage infliction. In case of liquidation of a legal entity, which was recognized as per established procedure as responsible for damage inflicted on life and health, the lawsuits shall be filed at the place of location of the relevant administrator of budget program.
6. Lawsuits resulting from agreements, which specify place of performance, may be filed also at the place of agreement performance.
7. Claims for divorce may be filed at the place of residence of the plaintiff when minor children live together with him, with the exception of claims in cases under the jurisdiction of district (municipal) courts located within the cities of republican significance and the capital, regional centers.
8. Lawsuits about restoration of property and non-property rights violated by illegal drawing to criminal or administrative liability, by illegal application of procedural compulsion measure or of a measure of proceedings performance concerning administrative offense case may be filed at the place of residence or location of defendant.
9. Lawsuits about protection of consumer rights may be filed at the place of claimant's residence or at the place of signing or performance of agreement. 
10. Lawsuits about indemnification of losses inflicted by collision of vessels as well as about recovery of indemnification for provision of aid and salvage at sea may be filed also at the place of defendant's location or vessel registration port.
11. Lawsuits concerning recovery of insurance payment under insurance agreement may be filed at the place of claimant's residence or at the place of defendant's location.
12. Lawsuits with several defendants may be filed at the place of residence or location of one of the defendants at option of claimant.
13. Selection between several courts, which according to this article have jurisdiction over a case, shall be claimant's except for jurisdiction stipulated by

Section 56. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law.
Footnote.

Section 57. Original section/article: 30. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (effective from 01.09.2023).

Section 58. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Exclusive jurisdiction. 
1. Claims on title to land plots, buildings, premises, facilities, other objects tightly connected with land (immovable property), on exemption of immovable property from arrest, on foreclosure for pledged immovable property, on termination or rescission of a Pledge Agreement on pledging immovable property shall be submitted at the place of location of such objects. 
If real estate facilities are in different residential areas the lawsuit shall be filed to court at the place of location of one of the facilities.
If real estate facilities are in the territory of one residential area, the lawsuit shall be filed to court at the place of location of one of the facilities.
2. Lawsuits of creditors of legators to be filed against heirs, devise executive (trust manager of inheritance) shall be referred to jurisdiction of court at the place of location of inheritable property in accordance with rules stipulated by part one of this article.
3. Lawsuits about recognition of an heir as unworthy, recognition of inheritance as escheated, prolongation or recovery of a period for acceptance of inheritance, refusal from inheritance shall be filed at the place of succession commencement.
4. Lawsuits against carriers resulting from agreements on transportation of cargo, passengers or luggage shall be filed to court at the place of carrier's location (transportation organization, individual entrepreneur).
5. Lawsuits about indemnification of losses inflicted due to violation by foreign state of jurisdiction immunity of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its property shall be filed to court at the place of claimant's location if it is not provided for otherwise by an international agreement ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 59. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 60. Original section/article: 32. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Agreed jurisdiction. 
By agreement between the parties, they may change the territorial jurisdiction, choose extraterritorial jurisdiction for the case, including in cases pending before the court, at the stage of preparing the case for trial. The jurisdiction established by

Section 61. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code may not be changed by agreement of the parties.
Footnote.

Section 62. Original section/article: 32. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be effective on 01.08.2022).

Section 63. Original section/article: 33. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction of several interrelated cases. 
1. Lawsuit of a third person, who files an independent demand and a counter lawsuit regardless of jurisdiction thereof, shall be filed to court at the place of initial lawsuit consideration.
2. When filing several lawsuits to one defendant the court shall be entitled to combine them in one proceeding if the subject of dispute or basis are connected with subject of dispute or basis available in case proceedings and jurisdiction of such lawsuits does not violate jurisdiction of case under court consideration.
3. Lawsuit resulting from a criminal case if it has not been filed or has not been settled as civil lawsuit in the course of proceedings under criminal case or left by court without consideration except for cases stipulated by part nine of

Section 64. Original section/article: 23. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law shall be filed against a person sentenced to imprisonment for consideration according to procedure of civil legal proceedings at the place of his/her residence prior to sentence or at the place of claimant's residence or location.
Lawsuit resulting from criminal case about socially dangerous act of an insane person, if it has not been filed or has not been settled as a civil lawsuit during proceedings on the case or has been left by court without consideration during proceedings on the case, shall be filed for consideration according to procedure of civil legal proceedings at the place of residence of the person materially responsible for actions of the insane person or at the place of claimant's residence or location.

Section 65. Original section/article: 34. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Transfer of case from proceedings in one court to the other court. 
1. A case accepted by court for proceedings in compliance with rules of jurisdiction shall be settled thereby effectively even if it falls in jurisdiction of the other court in the future.
2. Court shall transfer a case for consideration by the other court if:
1) defendant, whose place of residence was not known before, files a petition about transfer of the case to court at the place of his/her residence
2) after disqualification of one or several judges consideration of a case in this court becomes impossible;
3) in the course of case consideration in this court it was found out that it was taken for proceedings in violation of rules of jurisdiction;
4) basis arise stipulated by part three of

Section 66. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law;
5) basis arise stipulated by

Section 67. Original section/article: 32. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law;
6) there are grounds stipulated by Articles 27-1 and 27-2 of this Code.
3. Petitions of the parties on the lack of jurisdiction of this court shall be resolved by this court. A ruling shall be adopted on the transfer of the case to another court, as well as in the cases provided for in Articles 27-1 and 27-2 of this Code. A private complaint may be filed against the ruling, or an application may be filed by the prosecutor with the court of appeals, whereby the decision is final and cannot be appealed or contested.
4. In cases stipulated by sub-paragraph 2) of part two of this article a ruling shall be issued about transfer of the case to superior court for determination of jurisdiction thereof. The issue of transfer of a case to another court shall be considered by judge of superior court single handedly without advising of persons participating in the case and without holding of court session. According to results of consideration a ruling shall be issued, which shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal, protest.
5. Transfer of a case from one court to another shall be carried out upon expiry of the period for appeal against this ruling, and in case of appeal submission – upon issue of a ruling about leaving the appeal unsatisfied.
If both parties agree with the jurisdiction determined by the court, upon their written request, the transfer of the case from one court to another shall be carried out immediately after the ruling is made.
6. Disputes about jurisdiction between courts shall be settled by superior court, the ruling of which shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal, protest.
The dispute between the courts of first instance located in different regions, cities of republican significance and the capital is resolved by the court of cassation upon presentation of the relevant regional and equivalent court.
Footnote.

Section 68. Original section/article: 34. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Republic of Kazakhstan Law №91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be brought to effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
Chapter 4. COMPOSTION OF COURT PANEL, DISQUALIFICATION.

Section 69. Original section/article: 35. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Composition of court. 
1. Civil cases in first instance court shall be considered and settled by judge single handedly, who acts on behalf of the court.
2. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021). 
3. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021). 
3-1. Civil cases under

Section 70. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be heard and resolved in a regional or equivalent court by a single judge pursuant to the rules of the court of first instance.
Civil cases provided for in

Section 71. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code are considered and resolved in the court of cassation solely by a judge according to the rules of the court of first instance.
4. Consideration of cases in court of appeal shall be carried out by court panel consisting of odd number (not less than three) of judges of regional court or court with equal status, one of which is chairing, or – single handedly by the judge in accordance with

Section 72. Original section/article: 402. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law.
5. Cases in the court of cassation are considered by a collegial board consisting of an odd number (at least three) of judges of the court of cassation, chaired by the chairman of the court or one of the judges on his behalf. 
In cases of cancellation of judicial acts and referral of a case for consideration by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the court of cassation considers cases by a collegial board of an odd number (at least five) of judges under the chairmanship of the chairman of the court. 
6. The review of cases in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan is carried out in a collegial board of an odd number (not less than five) of judges under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or one of the judges on his behalf.
7. The composition of the court for the hearing a specific case shall be formed with due regard for the workload and specialization of judges in a manner that excludes the influence on its formation of persons interested in the outcome of the trial, including using an automated digital system.
8. A case, consideration of which has been commenced by one of judges or by court panel, shall be considered by the same judge or court panel.
Cases on disputes arising within the framework of the procedure for restoring solvency, the procedure for judicial bankruptcy of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the rehabilitation procedure and the bankruptcy procedure of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs, including the recognition of transactions concluded by the debtor as invalid, the return of the debtor's property, the recovery of receivables from claims of a financial, rehabilitation or bankruptcy manager, are considered by the same judge who made the decision on the application of the procedure for restoring solvency, procedures of judicial bankruptcy of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, rehabilitation procedures and bankruptcy procedures of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs, with the exception of cases on disputes, the jurisdiction of which is established by

Section 73. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
9. Replacement of judge or one of judges is possible in case of:
1) self-disqualification or disqualification of judge declared and satisfied according to procedure provided by this Law;
2) prolonged absence of judge due to sickness, vacation, study, service secondment;
3) if no agreement has been reached between the parties during mediation and there is no consent of the parties for consideration of the case by the same judge.
10. Replacement of a judge shall be carried out also in case of termination or suspension of his/her powers on the basis provided for by law.
11. In case of judge replacement in the course of case consideration the court proceedings shall be carried out from the very beginning. Committing of procedural actions in cases allowing no delay including acceptance of lawsuit application or application and initiation of case proceedings, consideration of application about lawsuit security, deferral of legal proceedings by one of judge instead of the other judge according to procedure of substitutability shall not be considered replacement of the judge.
Footnote.

Section 74. Original section/article: 35. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 290-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 291-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall become effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 75. Original section/article: 36. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for settlement of disputes by court panel. 
1. All judges when considering and settling cases by court panel shall avail themselves of equal rights. All issues arising during consideration and settlement of a case by court panel shall be settled by judges through majority of votes. When settling each issue nobody from among judges shall be entitled to refrain from voting.
2. Chairperson shall make proposals, shall convey his/her judgments and vote last.
3. Judge, who does not agree with decision of the majority, shall sign this decision and may state his/her special opinion in writing, which shall be included into the case in sealed envelop. Court of cassation shall be entitled to familiarize itself with the special opinion in the course of consideration of the given case. Persons participating in the case shall not be advised of availability of judge's special opinion, special opinion shall not be announced in court hearing hall.

Section 76. Original section/article: 37. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inadmissibility of recurring participation of a judge in consideration and settlement of case. 
1. A judge who participated in the consideration and resolution of a civil case in the court of first instance may not participate in the consideration of this case again in the court of first instance, as well as in the courts of appeal, cassation instances, during the review of the case in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as participate in a new consideration of the case in case of cancellation of the decision, adopted with his participation.
2. A judge who participated in the consideration of a case in a court of appeal may not participate in the consideration of this case in the courts of the first instance, cassation instances, during the review of the case in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as participate in a new consideration of the case in the court of appeal in the event of the cancellation of a judicial act adopted with his participation. 
3. The judge who participated in the consideration of the case in the court of cassation, when reviewing the case in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, may not participate in the consideration of the same case in the courts of the first and appellate instances, as well as participate in the new consideration of the case in the court of cassation in case of cancellation of the judicial act adopted with his participation.
Footnote.

Section 77. Original section/article: 37. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 78. Original section/article: 38. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Basis for disqualification (self-disqualification) of judge. 
1. Judge may not participate in consideration and settlement of a case and shall be subject to disqualification (self-disqualification) if he/she:
1) during the previous consideration of this case, he/she participated as a judge who conducted mediation, a prosecutor, a witness, an expert, a specialist, an interpreter, a consultant, a representative of a party or a third party, a secretary of a court session, a bailiff;
2) is a relative, husband (wife) or in-law relative of any of persons participating in a case or of their representatives;
3) personally, directly or indirectly interested in outcome of a case if there are other circumstances giving rise to motivated doubts in his/her impartiality.
2. Court panel considering a case may not include judges, who are relatives, spouses or in-law relatives towards each other.
Footnote.

Section 79. Original section/article: 38. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 80. Original section/article: 39. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Basis for disqualification (self-disqualification) of prosecutor, expert, specialist, translator, consultant, secretary of judicial session 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 81. Original section/article: 39. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The grounds for recusal (self-recusal) specified in subparagraphs 2), 3) of part one of

Section 82. Original section/article: 38. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall also apply to the prosecutor, secretary of the court session, specialist, interpreter, consultant, expert participating in the consideration and resolution of the case.
2. An expert, specialist, interpreter, in addition, may not participate in the consideration and resolution of the case by the court if:
1) he is or was in service or other kind of dependency on persons participating in the case or their representatives;
2) he performed audit or inspection, the results of which served as a basis for addressing the court or are used in the course of consideration of the given civil case;
3) his incompetence has become obvious, plus finding out of circumstances significant to the case goes beyond the area of his special knowledge.
3. Participation of a prosecutor, specialist, interpreter, consultant, secretary of the court session in the previous consideration and resolution of the case by the court as a prosecutor, specialist, interpreter, consultant, secretary of the court session, respectively, shall not be the grounds for their recusal. The previous participation of a citizen in the case as an expert shall not be a circumstance excluding the assignment to him/her to conduct an additional expert examination on the case, except for cases when it is appointed again after the expert examination conducted with his/her participation.
Footnote.

Section 83. Original section/article: 39. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 84. Original section/article: 40. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application for disqualification (self-disqualification). 
1. In the presence of the circumstances specified in Articles 38, 39 of this Code, the judge, prosecutor, expert, specialist, interpreter, consultant, secretary of the court session shall be obliged to declare self-recusal. On the same grounds, the recusal shall be declared by the participants of the case.
2. Disqualification (self-disqualification) shall be motivated and announced in writing prior to commencement of consideration on case merits. In the course of case consideration, the announcement about disqualification (self-disqualification) shall be allowed only in case the basis for disqualification (self-disqualification) has become known to court or a person, who announces disqualification (self-disqualification) after commencement of case consideration.
3. Repeated announcement of disqualification to judge on previously announced basis shall not be allowed.
4. Self-disqualification announced by judge on basis stipulated by sub-paragraphs 1), 2) of part one of

Section 85. Original section/article: 38. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law shall serve as an unconditional basis for satisfaction thereof.
Footnote.

Section 86. Original section/article: 40. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 87. Original section/article: 41. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for consideration of application about disqualification (self-disqualification). 
1. Recusal (self-recusal), declared to the prosecutor, secretary of the court session, specialist, expert, interpreter, consultant in the court session, shall be considered and resolved by the court in the same court session.
A written recusal (self-recusal) declared outside the court session shall be considered by the judge without notifying the parties no later than the next working day from the date of its receipt, and if additional circumstances need to be clarified, at the next court session.
2. Disqualification (self-disqualification) announced to judge of first instance court shall be considered and settled by chairperson or other judge of this court without notification of parties not later than the other business day since the day of announcement thereof, in case of their absence – a judge of the relevant regional court and a court with equal status not later than the following business day since the day of receipt thereof.
3. Disqualification (self-disqualification) announced to judge of court of appeal shall be considered and settled by chairperson of court of appeal single handedly without notification of parties not later than the following business day since the date of announcement thereof, in case of his absence – by other judge of this court of appeal.
4. When considering the case by the collegial composition of the court, the recusal (self-recusal), declared to one of the judges, shall be considered by other judges of the collegiate composition of the court. The court, based on the recusal, shall hear the opinion of the participants of the case, the opinion of the recused judge if he/she wishes to explain. Recusal (self-recusal) shall be allowed without the participation of the judge who is recused (self-recused). If there is an equal number of votes for and against the recusal (self-recusal), the recusal (self-recusal) shall be considered satisfied.
5. Disqualification (self-disqualification) announced to two and more judges or to all judges of court panel, which considers the case in court hearing, shall be settled by the same court in banc by simple majority of votes.
6. In case of rejection of announcement about disqualification (self-disqualification) the case shall be considered and settled in the same court hearing and by the same court panel.
7. In case of satisfying an application for disqualification (self-disqualification) consideration of the case shall be deferred. Persons participating in the case and their representatives shall be advised of time and place for case consideration in a new court hearing.
8. A court ruling based on the results of consideration of an application for recusal (self-recusal) is not subject to appeal or review at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments about disagreement with the ruling may be included in an appeal, a prosecutor's appeal, a cassation appeal for a cassation review of a judicial act, or a cassation protest.
Footnote.

Section 88. Original section/article: 41. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Republic of Kazakhstan Law №91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be brought to effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 89. Original section/article: 42. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of satisfaction of application about disqualification (self-disqualification). 
1. In case of disqualification (self-disqualification) of judge, who considers a case single handedly in district court or a court with equal status, this case shall be considered in the same court by the other judge. The case shall be transferred to the other first instance court through superior court if in court, which carries out case proceedings, replacement of judge is impossible.
2. In the event of the recusal (self-recusal) of a judge or the recusal of the entire composition of the court when considering a case in a regional or equivalent court, the court of cassation, the case is considered in the same court by another judge or another composition of judges. 
3. The case must be referred to the court of cassation to determine the court in which it will be considered if, after satisfying the recusals or challenges, it is impossible to form a new composition of the court to consider the case in a regional or equivalent court.
Footnote.

Section 90. Original section/article: 42. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
Chapter 5. PERSONS PARTICIPATING IN CASE

Section 91. Original section/article: 43. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Persons, who participate in case 
1. Persons participating in a case shall be considered third parties, prosecutor, state authorities, local authorities, legal entities or citizens, who get involved into the process due to basis stipulated by articles 55 and 56 of this Law; applicants and other concerned persons under cases to be considered by court as per procedure of special proceedings listed in

Section 92. Original section/article: 302. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Law.
2. Persons participating in a case shall be determined by the subject and basis of demands, objections of parties and other persons participating in the case and subject to application of laws.

Section 93. Original section/article: 44. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Civil procedural legal standing. 
Ability to have civil procedural rights and obligations (civil procedural legal capacity) shall be equally recognized as available with all citizens and legal entities, who are subjects of material law.

Section 94. Original section/article: 45. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Civil capacity to sue 
1. Capacity through own actions to exercise its rights and perform obligations in court (civil capacity to sue) shall fully belong to citizens, who reached the age of eighteen, to legal entities.
2. Rights, liberties and legal interests of minors at the age of fourteen to eighteen as well as citizens recognized as the ones with limited capacity to sue shall be protected in court by their parents or other legal representatives. Court shall draw to participation in such cases the minors themselves or citizens recognized as the ones with limited capacity to sue. Upon petition of legal representatives of minors or citizens recognized as the ones with limited capacity to sue the court may involve a prosecutor into the case.
3. Rights, liberties and legal interests of minors, who have not reached the age of fourteen, as well as of citizens recognized as the ones with limited capacity, shall be defended in court by their legal representatives, prosecutor.
4. In cases stipulated by law concerning cases arisen out of civil, family, employment, cooperative and other legal relations and out of transactions related to disposal of received salary or income from entrepreneurship activity the minors at the age of fourteen to eighteen shall have the right to personally protect their rights and legal interests in court.
5. Minors emancipated for reasons stipulated by law shall acquire full capacity to sue from the moment of emancipation.
6. Court shall be entitled to involve at its discretion for participation in cases legal representatives of minors indicated in parts four and five of this article with the purpose of providing them with assistance.

Section 95. Original section/article: 46. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Rights and obligations of persons participating in case 
1. Persons participating in a case shall be entitled to familiarize themselves with materials of the case, to take notes therefrom and to make copies; to announce disqualifications; to provide evidence and to participate in study thereof; to ask questions from other persons participating in a case, witnesses, experts and specialists; to file petitions including about taking of measures as to securing of lawsuit, as to ensuring of evidence, about demand for additional proofs, about application of reconciliation procedures; to give verbal and written explanations to court; to give own arguments concerning all issues arising in the course of judicial proceedings; raise objection against petitions and arguments of other persons participating in case; participate in legal pleadings; familiarize themselves with minutes of court hearing and file written notes concerning the minutes; appeal against decision s, rulings and resolutions of court; avail themselves of other procedural rights provided by the Republic of Kazakhstan legislation on civil legal proceedings. They shall avail themselves in good faith of all procedural rights belonging to them without abusing rights of other persons, without infringing their interests and not allowing intentional delay in consideration and settlement of case. 
Participation in the case can be provided by using technical means of communication in the cases and manner established by this Code.
1-1. Persons participating in the case who have hearing and (or) vision disabilities, with complete loss of speech, are entitled to use the rights specified in part one of this article with the help of interpreter services, as well as with the use of sign language, typhlotechnical means.
2. Persons participating in case shall announce to court actual circumstances of case completely and honestly, speak out or provide court with written documents refuting facts stated by the other party. Failure of persons participating in case to perform procedural obligations shall entail procedural consequences stipulated by this Law.
3. Parties participating in a corporate dispute shall be entitled to request from each other and from witnesses the documents, which are significant for case without listing each specific document.
Parties may not request from each other and from witnesses the documents containing state secrets or other secret protected by law.
4. Actions indicated in parts one and two of this article may be taken through filing applications and petitions, documents in writing or in electronic form.
Footnote.

Section 96. Original section/article: 46. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Republic of Kazakhstan Law № 49-VI dated 27.02.2017 (shall be brought to effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 97. Original section/article: 47. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Parties 
1. Claimant and defendant shall be the parties in civil legal proceedings.
Claimants shall be citizens and legal entities, which filed a lawsuit with the purpose of protecting their violated or disputed rights and liberties, legal interests, or for protection of which a lawsuit has been filed by other persons according to procedure stipulated by this Law.
Defendants shall be citizens and legal entities, to which a legal claim has been raised.
2. In cases stipulated by law the parties may be also organizations, which are not legal entities.
3. A person, for the benefit of whom a case has been initiated upon application of persons, who have the right to address court for protection of rights, liberties and interests of other persons protected by law, shall be notified by the court of initiated proceedings and shall participate therein as defendant.
4. The state may be a party to civil legal proceedings.
5. Parties shall have equal procedural rights and shall bear equal procedural obligations.

Section 98. Original section/article: 48. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Change of basis or subject of lawsuit, refusal from lawsuit, recognition of lawsuit, amicable agreement, dispute (conflict) settlement agreement as per mediation procedure or dispute settlement agreement as per participative procedure. 
1. Claimant shall be entitled to change the basis or subject of lawsuit, increase or reduce extent of claim or refuse from lawsuit; defendant shall be entitled to recognize lawsuit, the parties may finalize the case with an amicable agreement or a dispute (conflict) settlement agreement as per mediation procedure or a dispute settlement agreement as per participative procedure according to rules stipulated by articles 169, 170, 171 and chapter 17 of this Law.
2. Court shall not be entitled to change subject or basis of lawsuit upon its initiative. Court shall not accept claimant's refusal from lawsuit, recognition of lawsuit by defendant and shall not approval amicable agreement of parties or agreement between parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) as per mediation procedure or agreement on settlement of dispute as per participative procedure if such actions contradict the law or violate anybody's rights, liberties and legal interests.
3. In case of change of basis or subject of lawsuit, increase or reduction of claim extent the period for case consideration shall be calculated from the date of submission of initial claim.

Section 99. Original section/article: 49. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation of several claimants and defendants in case 
1. Law may be filed jointly by several claimants to one or to several defendants. Each of claimants or defendants shall act in relation to the other party independently in the course of proceedings. Parties may commission running of a case to one of co-claimants or co-defendants respectively on the basis of power of attorney.
2. Participation in a case of several claimants or defendants shall be allowed if:
1) subject of dispute are general rights and obligations of several claimants or several defendants;
2) rights and obligations of several claimants or several defendants shall have one basis;
3) homogeneous (identical) rights and obligations of several claimants or several defendants shall be the subject of dispute.

Section 100. Original section/article: 50. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Replacement of a wrong defendant 
1. Replacement of defendant shall be allowed prior to consideration of case on merits in first instance court. Court having established that a lawsuit has been filed against a person, who shall not respond on the lawsuit, may upon defendant's petition without termination of the case allow replacement of a wrong defendant with a correct one. After replacement of a wrong defendant preparation of a case and consideration thereof in court proceedings shall be carried out from the very beginning. The period for case consideration shall be calculated from the date of completion of case preparation for legal proceedings.
2. If claimant does not agree with replacement of a wrong defendant with a correct defendant the court shall consider and settle the case on the basis of the filed lawsuit.

Section 101. Original section/article: 51. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Third parties claiming independent demands on the subject of dispute 
1. Third parties claiming independent demands with respect to the subject of dispute may intervene in the proceedings before the case is fully prepared for trial by filling a claim to one or both parties. They shall enjoy all the rights and bear all the obligations of a plaintiff.
2. The court, when preparing a case for trial and having reliable data that the demands may affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of the third parties, shall notify the said persons about the adoption of such a statement.
3. If the third party has not exercised the right to be involved in the case or to file an independent claim in the first instance court, the court shall consider and solve the case on the basis of the demand made by the plaintiff.

Section 102. Original section/article: 52. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Third parties not claiming independent demands with respect to the subject of dispute 
Third parties not claiming independent demands with respect to the subject of dispute may intervene in the proceedings before the first instance court passes a judgment in the case, if it can affect their rights or obligations towards one of the parties on the side of a plaintiff or a defendant. They may be involved in the proceedings at the request of the parties and other persons involved in the proceedings, or at the initiative of the court.
The court, when preparing a case for trial and having reliable data that the demands may affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of third parties, shall notify the said persons about the adoption of such a statement.
The court shall make a decision on intervention of a third party not claiming an independent demand with respect to the subject of dispute in the proceedings at the stage of preparing the case for trial, as indicated in the ruling on the preparation of the case for trial, or at the court hearing by the ruling, which is recorded in the court record.
Third parties not claiming independent demands shall enjoy procedural rights and bear procedural obligations of the party from which side they are involved in the proceedings. These persons shall not have the right to change the ground or subject of a claim, increase or decrease the amount of demands, waive a claim, acknowledge a claim, conclude a settlement agreement or an agreement on settlement of disputes (conflicts) in accordance with the mediation procedure or an agreement on settlement of disputes in accordance with the participatory procedure, file a counterclaim, demand the compulsory enforcement of court decision.
When a third party, not claiming independent demands, intervenes in the proceedings, the case shall remain ongoing and this party shall be given an opportunity to study the case file, including the explanations given earlier by the parties participating in the trial.

Section 103. Original section/article: 53. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedural legal succession 
1. In the event that one of the parties leaves in case of contentious relationships or legal relationships established by the court (death of a party, reorganization, liquidation of a legal entity, assignment of demand, transfer of debt and other cases of substitution of parties in contentious material relationships), the court shall allow substitution of this party for its legal successor. The succession shall be possible at any stage of the proceedings.
2. All actions committed prior to the intervention of the successor in the proceedings shall be binding for him/her/it to the extent that they would be binding for the party replaced by the successor.
3. In the event that one of the parties leaves during the consideration of the case in the first instance court and the appellate court, the proceedings shall be suspended in accordance with subparagraph 1) of the first part of

Section 104. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
4. If one of the parties leaves at the stage of reviewing judicial acts in the court of cassation, the cassation appeal for the review of judicial acts of the retired party and other persons participating in the case shall be left without consideration. The cassation appeal may be re-filed by the legal successor.
The objection is subject to be left without consideration, if it is brought at the request of the party that left the proceedings, another party involved in the proceedings, except in cases of objection initiated by the prosecutor.
5. Requests of a successor, prosecutor for the restoration of the period for appeal, protest of judicial acts shall be considered by the cassation court in the manner prescribed by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 105. Original section/article: 53. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 106. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation of a prosecutor in civil proceedings 
1. On behalf of the state the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan both directly and through subordinate prosecutors shall carry out supreme supervision over the legality of judicial acts in civil matters that have entered into legal force.
2. The prosecutor shall have the right to enter the process to give an opinion on the case in order to fulfill the duties provided for by this Code.
Participation of the prosecutor in civil proceedings shall be mandatory in matters affecting the interests of the state, when it is necessary to protect public interests or interests of the citizens who cannot defend themselves, as well as when the need for the prosecutor’s participation is recognized by the court.
These powers of a prosecutor shall be provided by timely notification of the prosecutor by the court about all cases assigned for consideration by posting relevant information on the court’s Internet resource.
3. In accordance with the legislation, a prosecutor shall have the right to file a claim or application to the court for restoration of the violated rights and protection of the interests of the following persons:
1) persons who, due to physical, mental and other circumstances, are not able to independently protect themselves;
2) unlimited number of persons;
3) persons, society and state, if it is necessary to prevent irreversible consequences for life, health of people or security of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The prosecutor has the right to apply to the court to restore the violated rights and protect the interests of subjects of the quasi-public sector, large businesses, including banks that received state support, as well as file lawsuits for invalidation of transactions and application of the consequences of invalidity of transactions made by subjects of the quasi-public sector, large businesses, including banks that received state support; reclaiming their property from someone else's illegal possession; on compensation for damage caused to subjects of the quasi-public sector, large businesses, including banks that received state support; on challenging decisions of authorities in relation to subjects of the quasi-public sector, large businesses, including banks that received state support.
3-1. In cases provided for in the third part of this Article, the statement of claim may be filed by the prosecutor to the court regardless of the request and statement of the person concerned.
4. If a plaintiff does not support the demands asserted by the prosecutor, the court shall leave the claim (application) without consideration, if it does not affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of third parties.
5. The prosecutor who filed the claim enjoys all procedural rights, and also bears all procedural duties of the plaintiff, except for the right to conclude a settlement agreement, except in cases provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state", an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) by mediation and an agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the order of the participatory procedure. The refusal of the prosecutor to file a claim in defense of the interests of another person does not deprive this person of the right to demand consideration of the case on the merits after payment of the state fee in accordance with the requirements of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code).
6. The prosecutor, representing the interests of the prosecution authorities in the dispute brought before the court as a plaintiff or a defendant, shall enjoy the procedural rights and obligations of the party.
Note. Lawsuits, statements of the prosecutor to the court provided for in paragraph two of subparagraph 3) of part three of this Article are filed against entities and (or) their affiliated persons defined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state", or against other persons in connection with the implementation by the authorized body for the return of assets of search measures and the return of assets in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the return of illegally acquired assets to the state.
Footnote.

Section 107. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days from the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 108. Original section/article: 55. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial recourse to protect rights of other persons, public and state interests 
1. In events prescribed by law, state and local self-government bodies, legal entities or citizens, the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan may apply to court to protect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of other persons upon their request, as well as public or state interests.
2. A claim to protect the interests of disabled citizens may be filed regardless of the request of the person concerned.
3. The persons who filed a claim to protect another person’s interests shall enjoy all the procedural rights and bear all the procedural obligations of a plaintiff, except for the right to abandon a claim, conclude a settlement agreement or an agreement on settlement of disputes (conflicts) in accordance with the mediation procedure or an agreement on settlement of disputes in accordance with the participatory procedure.
4. If the person in whose interests the case is initiated does not support the stated demand, the court shall leave the claim (application) without consideration, if it does not affect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of third parties.
Footnote.

Section 109. Original section/article: 55. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 91-VII of 29.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 110. Original section/article: 56. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation of state and local self-government bodies in providing an opinion on the case 
1. In cases provided by the Law, state authorities and local self-government authorities may intervene in the proceedings at their own initiative, at the request of the persons participating in the case, and at the initiative of the court to give a written opinion on the case. 
State bodies and local self-government bodies shall be sent the questions that require a conclusion.
2. Opinion shall be given in order to fulfill the obligations assigned to these bodies to protect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, public or state interests and within the competence of a state or local self-government body and shall be entered into the case file.
Opinion of state bodies, local self-government bodies shall not have a predetermined force. The court’s disagreement with the opinion should be indicated in the court decision.
3. The bodies specified in this Article through their representatives shall enjoy all the rights of persons participating in the case, as provided for in

Section 111. Original section/article: 46. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
Footnote.

Section 112. Original section/article: 56. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 5-1. OTHER PERSONS PARTICIPATING IN CONSIDERATION OF A CASE
Footnote. The Code is supplemented by Chapter 5-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 113. Original section/article: 56-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consultant 
1. A consultant shall be a civil servant providing formation of a case, perform the lawful instructions of a judge aimed at preparing and organizing the judicial trial.
2. The consultant shall obligated:
1) to ensure the maintenance and proper preparation of materials of a civil case;
2) to make projects of litigation documents under instructions of a judge, with the exception of judicial acts deciding a case on merits;
3) to send inquiries and take other actions to execute court rulings;
4) to acquaint persons participating in a case with case materials, send copies of judicial acts and other documents to them in the cases provided by this Code;
5) to send a case to the appeal instance in compliance with the requirements established by this Code;
6) to ensure the transfer of the file to the archive;
7) under instructions of the judge to perform other actions aimed at preparation and organization of the judicial trial.
3. The consultant upon exercising his powers, shall not entitled to perform the functions of administering justice, to take actions entailing the occurrence, modification or termination of the rights and duties of persons participating in the case, to disclose information on circumstances that became known to him in connection with the preparation of projects of the litigation documents, participation in a closed judicial session, as well as any sensitive government information or other secrets protected by the Law. 
The consultant on behalf of the judge may exercise the powers of a secretary of judicial session.

Section 114. Original section/article: 56-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Secretary of judicial session 
1. A secretary of a court session shall be a civil servant who keeps the protocol of judicial session, and also keeps audio and video recordings of judicial session.
2. The secretary of judicial session shall obliged:
1) stay in the courtroom all the time while he needs to ensure logging, and shall not leave the court session without the permission of the presiding judge;
2) to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the record in the protocol of actions and decisions of the court, petitions, objections, explanations of all the persons participating in court session, as well as other circumstances to be incorporated in the protocol of the court session;
3) to draw up a protocol of the court session in written or electronic form within the time limits and according to the rules provided by this Code;
4) to obey the lawful orders of the presiding judge;
5) not to disclose information about circumstances that have become known in connection with his participation in a closed judicial session, as well as any sensitive government information or other secrets protected by the Law;
6) to ensure order in courtroom in the absence of bailiff;
7) to fulfill other requirements established by this Code.

Section 115. Original section/article: 56-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Bailiff 
1. A bailiff shall be an official in the public service who performs the tasks assigned to him/her by law.
2. The bailiff shall maintain public order in the courtroom during the court session, assist the court in the performance of procedural actions, protect judges and other participants in the process in the courts, carry out the orders of the presiding judge, and exercise other powers assigned to him/her by law.
Footnote. Chapter 5-1 is supplemented by

Section 116. Original section/article: 56-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 117. Original section/article: 56-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interpreter 
1. A person who is not interested in the case, who speaks the languages necessary for translation, including sign language and (or) Braille, and who is involved in procedural actions in cases when the person participating in the case, as well as the witness, expert, specialist do not speak the language, on which the proceedings are conducted, as well as for the translation of written documents, is invited as an interpreter. 
2. The presiding judge shall issue a protocol ruling on the appointment of an interpreter.
3. The interpreter shall have the right to:
1) ask questions to citizens present during the translation to clarify the translation;
2) get acquainted with the protocol of the court session in which he/she participated, submit comments on the protocol in terms of the completeness and correctness of the reflection of the translation;
3) refuse to participate in the proceedings if he/she does not have sufficient knowledge necessary for translation;
4) receive reimbursement of expenses incurred by him/her in connection with participation in the case, and remuneration for the work performed, if participation in the proceedings on the case is not part of his/her official duties.
4. The interpreter is obliged to:
1) appear in court on a summons;
2) complete and correct translation;
3) certify the correctness of the translation with his/her signature in the protocol of the court session held with his/her participation, as well as in other documents submitted to him/her for translation;
4) not disclose information on the circumstances of the case and other data that became known to him/her in connection with the engagement as an interpreter;
5) observe order during the court session.
5. The rules of this Article shall apply to a citizen who has the skills of sign language translation and who is involved by the court to participate in the process.
Footnote. Chapter 5-1 is supplemented by

Section 118. Original section/article: 56-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 6. REPRESENTATION IN COURT

Section 119. Original section/article: 57. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conduct of a case by representatives 
Citizens shall have the right to conduct their cases in court in person or through representatives. Personal participation in the case shall not deprive a citizen of the right to have a representative in this case.
Cases of legal entities shall be conducted in court by their leaders, acting within the limits of authorities granted to them by the law, other regulatory legal acts or constituent documents, and (or) their representatives. Head of a legal entity shall submit to the court documents confirming his/her official position or authority.
Any legally capable person may be a representative in court in accordance with part three of this Article if he/she has duly established authorities to conduct a case in court, based on a Power of Attorney, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a court decision or an administrative act.
3. Representatives of the persons, specified in the first and second parts of this Article are:
1) in the first instance courts and appellate courts, the persons indicated in the first part of

Section 120. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
2) in the cassation court, the persons referred to in subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 4), 4-1) and 6) of the first part of

Section 121. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 122. Original section/article: 57. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 91-VII of 29.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 123. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Representation under instructions 
1. The following persons can be representatives under instructions in court:
1) lawyers;
2) employees of legal entities:
with regard to the cases of these legal entities, and state authorities – with regard to the cases of these state authorities and their territorial subdivisions; 
with regard to the cases of other legal entities, if such legal entities shall be under the control (direct or indirect) of the same person;
3) authorized representatives of trade unions – with regard to the cases of workers, employees, as well as other persons whose rights and interests are protected by these trade unions;
4) authorized organizations that are entitled by the law, charter or regulation to protect the rights and interests of the members of these organizations, as well as the rights and interests of other persons;
4-1) the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) one of the participants under instructions of other co-participants;
6) the persons who are the members of the Chamber of Legal Consultants in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Advocacy and Legal Assistance".
2. The procedural powers of the representative shall be confirmed by a duly executed power of attorney, excluding the person referred to in sub-paragraph 4-1) of paragraph one hereof.
3. In accordance with the warrant, an advocate and a written notice on protection (representation), an advocate shall have the right to perform the necessary procedural actions in case of representation, The powers of an advocate to perform each of the legal proceedings listed in part one of

Section 124. Original section/article: 60. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code should be specified in the Power of Attorney.
Footnote.

Section 125. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 177-VI dated 05.07.2018 (the order of enforcement see

Section 126. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
); № 91-VII of 29.12.2021 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 127. Original section/article: 59. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Persons who cannot be representatives in court 
1. Judges, investigators, prosecutors and members of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan or local representative bodies cannot be representatives in court, unless they participate in the proceedings as the representatives of relevant organizations or legal representatives.
2. Representatives under instructions in court cannot be the advocates as well as persons who are members of the Chamber of Legal Consultants who have accepted instructions for the provision of legal assistance in violation of requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on advocacy and legal assistance.
3. A person cannot be a representative under instructions if:
1) in this case he/she provides or has previously provided legal assistance to the persons whose interests are contrary to the interests of the person represented; 
2) previously participated in the consideration and adjudication of a case as a judge, prosecutor, expert, specialist, interpreter, consultant, witness or attesting witness;
3) he/she shall be a relative of another party or a third party, judge, prosecutor, consultant, secretary of judicial session, expert who gave an opinion on the case, specialist, translator;
4) due to mental health or age, and for other reasons, he/she is not independently able to exercise representation.
4. Representatives under instructions listed in the first, second and third parts of this Article shall be excluded from participation in the case by the court at the request of the person participating in the case, or at the initiative of the court. The court shall render a determination about this, which shall be recorded in the court record.
5. When representatives under instructions are dismissed of their participation in the case, the court shall postpone the proceedings for a period necessary for formalizing the powers of another representative and his/her familiarization with the case materials, but not more than five working days.
Footnote.

Section 128. Original section/article: 59. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 177-VI dated 05.07.2018 (the order of enforcement see

Section 129. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 130. Original section/article: 60. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Powers of a representative 
1. At the instruction the representative has the right to perform on behalf of the represented person all the procedural actions provided for by this Code, except for signing a claim, transferring the case to arbitration, the court of the Astana International Financial Center, concluding a settlement agreement, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) through mediation or an agreement on the settlement of a dispute through a participatory procedure, full or partial refusal from a claim or recognition of a claim, an increase or decrease in the subject of claims, a change in the subject or basis of the claim, transfer of authority to another person (transfer of trust), appeal against a judicial act on appeal or cassation procedures, filing an application for review of a judicial act based on newly discovered or new circumstances, demanding compulsory execution of a judicial act, receiving awarded property, rejecting an appeal and a cassation appeal for review of a judicial act in cassation procedure.
2. Representatives per proxy, specified in subparagraphs 1) and 6) of part one of

Section 131. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, along with the rights provided for in part one of this Article, have the right to request certificates or other documents from state bodies, public associations, legal entities, as well as to perform other actions to provide legal assistance in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on advocacy and legal assistance.
3. Representative’s powers to perform each of the procedural actions referred to in the first part of this Article shall be specifically provided for in the Power of Attorney issued by the person represented.
4. The representative acting in charge has procedural rights and bears procedural duties of the person whose interests he represents within the powers granted to him.
Footnote.

Section 132. Original section/article: 60. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 177-VI dated June 5, 2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 20.06.2022 № 128-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 133. Original section/article: 61. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Registration of representative’s powers 
1. The representative’s powers shall be expressed in a Power of Attorney issued and executed in accordance with the law.
The Power of Attorney shall be submitted to the court in writing or in the form of an electronic document certified by a digital signature of the principal.
2. Authorized persons of the trade unions and other organizations in accordance with subparagraphs 3), 4) of the first part of

Section 134. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code should submit to the court the documents certifying instructions for implementation of representation in this case.
3. The advocate’s powers to conduct a particular case shall be certified by a warrant and a written notice on protection (representation) prescribed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On advocacy and legal assistance ".
Fulfillment by a lawyer of the procedural actions provided for in the first paragraph of

Section 135. Original section/article: 60. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be certified by a Power of Attorney.
4. The Power of Attorney on behalf of the legal entity shall be issued by the head or other authorized person of the relevant legal entity.
5. The representatives’ powers specified in Subparagraphs 5) and 6) of part one of

Section 136. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code may be expressed in the Power of Attorney or in case of personal participation in the judicial session in an oral statement of the grantor recorded in the court record. The representative indicated in subparagraph 6) of part one of

Section 137. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall submit a proof of membership in the Chamber of Legal Consultants.
6. The representative in cases specified in Sub-paragraph three of Subparagraph 2) of part one of

Section 138. Original section/article: 58. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be additionally submitted documents confirming that the legal entity whose employee he/she shall be and the legal entity whose interests he/she represents shall be under control (direct or indirectly) of the same person.
Footnote.

Section 139. Original section/article: 61. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 177-VI dated 05.07.2018 (the order of enforcement see

Section 140. Original section/article: 62. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legal representatives 
1. Rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of legally incapable citizens, minors and persons recognized as legally restricted shall be protected in court by their parents, adoptive parents, caretakers, trustees, foster parents, or other persons replacing them, who submit documents to the court certifying their authority.
2. As for the case in which a citizen recognized to be missing in the prescribed manner should participate, a person having a custody over the missing person shall have the right to be his/her representative.
3. As for the case in which a heir of the person who has died or declared dead in accordance with the law, taking into account that his/her inheritance has not yet been accepted by anyone, a person to whom hereditary property has been transferred into trust management shall be a representative of the heir.
4. Legal representatives shall perform on behalf of the represented person all the procedural actions, for which the represented person has the right, with the restrictions provided for by the law. Legal representatives may entrust the conduct of the case in court to another representative.
The legal representative of a minor, person, recognized to be incapable in a judicial proceeding, or a person recognized in court as missing, shall perform in the interests of the represented person all the procedural actions when dealing with disputes involving the property of the ward.
The legal representative of a minor, a person recognized to be partially incapacitated, shall independently perform all procedural actions in the course of proceeding on cases the subject of which are the obligations derived from the scope of limited rights. In other disputes, a partially incapacitated person shall perform procedural actions and bear independent procedural obligations.
5. Legal representatives and representatives under instructions shall have no rights to perform procedural actions in their own interests or contrary to the interests of the represented person.
Chapter 7. EVIDENCE AND PROOF

Section 141. Original section/article: 63. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evidence 
1. Evidence in the case shall be a legally obtained information about the facts on the basis of which the court establishes the presence or absence of circumstances substantiating the demands and objections of the parties, as well as other circumstances that are important for correct consideration and adjudgement of the case.
2. Information about the facts can be obtained from the explanations of the parties and third parties, testimonies of witnesses, expert opinions, material evidence, minutes of proceedings, court records, audio, video, data obtained by using video conferencing systems, reflecting the progress and results of the legal proceedings and other sources.

Section 142. Original section/article: 64. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Relevance of evidence 
Evidence shall be recognized by the court as relevant if it contains information about the facts that confirm, refute or call into question the existence of circumstances relevant to the case.

Section 143. Original section/article: 65. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Admissibility of evidence 
1. Evidence shall be recognized by the court as admissible if it is obtained in the manner provided for by this Code.
2. Audio and video recordings, including those obtained by observation and/or fixation devices, photo and/or filming materials, other materials on electronic, digital and other material media may be recognized as admissible evidence.
3. Facts of the case, which by the law should be supported by certain evidence, cannot be supported by any other evidence.

Section 144. Original section/article: 66. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Information in admissible as evidence 
1. Information about facts shall be recognized by the court as inadmissible as evidence if it is obtained with violations of the requirements of this Code by depriving or limiting the rights of the persons involved in the case, who have influenced or could have affected the accuracy of information received about the facts, including:
1) use of violence, threats, deception, as well as other illegal actions;
2) by misleading a person participating in the case regarding his/her rights and obligations arising from the lack of explanation, incomplete or incorrect explanation to this person;
3) in connection with the procedural actions conducted by a person who has no right to conduct the procedural actions in this civil case;
4) in connection with participation in the procedural actions of the person subject to disqualification;
5) with a significant violation of the procedure for conduct of a procedural action;
6) from an unknown source or from a source that cannot be established at the court hearing;
7) use of methods contradicting modern scientific knowledge in the course of proving;
8) by making special or changing the content in order to substantiate or refute the arguments of a party or other persons involved in the case.
2. Inadmissibility of using information as evidence in the proceedings shall be established at the discretion of the court or at the request of the persons involved in the case.
3. The evidence obtained in violation of the law shall be deemed to have no legal force and cannot be used as a basis for a court decision, as well as cannot be used in proving any circumstance relevant to the case. Such evidence can be used in proving the fact of violations and guilt of the persons who committed them.
4. In case of non-regulation of the dispute (conflict) by mediation, the evidence obtained by the judge during mediation in court may not be presented to the judge in charge of the case, except if the parties do not object to it.
Footnote.

Section 145. Original section/article: 66. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 146. Original section/article: 67. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Credibility of evidence 
The evidence shall be considered as reliable if, as the result of verification, it turns out that it is true.

Section 147. Original section/article: 68. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evaluation of evidence 
1. Each evidence shall be assessed taking into account relevance, admissibility, reliability, and all collected evidence in aggregate - taking into account sufficiency for the resolution of a civil case.
2. In accordance with

Section 148. Original section/article: 16. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, a judge shall evaluate the evidence according to his or her inner conviction.
3. Circumstances shall be deemed to be established if one party does not dispute and acknowledges the evidence submitted by the other party or disputing the evidence shall not directly follow from the objection of a defendant or from a plaintiff’s objection to the arguments of the defendant.
4. In the event of an application for fraud of the evidence submitted by the other party, the person who made such a statement shall be obliged to indicate the evidence of falsification of the evidence.
If the person who submitted the evidence recognizes the statement about fraud as justified, the court shall exclude the evidence from the number of admissible and resolve the case based on other evidence.
5. Circumstances cannot be considered as established if only copies of documents are presented in confirmation, when the need to present the original follows from the requirements of the law.
The court also cannot consider as proved the circumstances, confirmed only by a copy of the document or other written evidence when challenging its content, if:
1) the original document has been lost and not submitted to the court;
2) copies of this document submitted by each of the parties to the dispute are not identical with each other;
3) it is impossible to establish the contents of the original document with the help of other evidence.
6. Cumulative evidence shall be deemed sufficient to resolve a civil case if the relevant admissible and reliable evidence relating to the case is collected, indisputably confirming the circumstances relevant to the case and not disproved by the other party.

Section 149. Original section/article: 69. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Securing of evidence 
1. The persons involved in the proceedings and having a reason to fear that the submission of the evidence necessary for them will subsequently become impossible or difficult may ask the court to secure this evidence.
2. Securing of evidence by the court shall be carried out by questioning witnesses, appointing and carrying out expert examination, examining evidence at the places where it is stored, sending a court order and in other ways.
Securing of evidence prior to the initiation of proceedings in court shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on notariate.

Section 150. Original section/article: 70. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application on securing of evidence 
1. Application on securing of evidence shall be brought to the court in which the case is located.
2. Application on security of evidence should indicate the evidence that should be provided, circumstances of the case, to confirm or refute which such evidence is necessary, information confirming that it is difficult to present the necessary evidence. The application should indicate the case in which it is necessary to provide evidence, the presentation of which was refused.
3. Based on the results of consideration of the application on security of evidence, the court shall make a decision, according to which it shall take procedural actions to secure evidence or refuse it. A private complaint may be submitted to determination; request by the prosecutor shall be brought to the appellate court, the decision of which is final and not subject to revision. With the private complaint, the prosecutor’s request to the appellate court separated from the case material concerning the decision made is sent.
Footnote.

Section 151. Original section/article: 70. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated July 11, 2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law).

Section 152. Original section/article: 71. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for securing evidence 
1. The judge shall secure the evidence during preparation of the case for trial or during consideration of the case in the first instance court no later than three working days from the date of receipt of the application.
2. The applicant and other persons involved in the case shall be notified of the time and place of securing the evidence, but their non-appearance shall not be an obstacle for the court to perform a separate procedural action to secure evidence.
3. The records and all the evidence collected in order to secure evidence shall be submitted to the court considering the case, with notification of the persons involved in the case.

Section 153. Original section/article: 72. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The evidential burden of proof 
Each party shall prove the circumstances that it refers to as the grounds for its claims and objections, use the means of protection, assert, dispute the facts, present evidence and objections to the evidence within the time limits established by the judge, which correspond to the fair conduct of the process and are aimed at facilitating the proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 154. Original section/article: 72. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 29, 2020, № 351-VI (shall come into effect from July 1, 2021).

Section 155. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Presentation of evidence 
1. The evidence shall be submitted by the parties and other persons involved in the case to the court of first instance at the time of acceptance of the claim, with their drawing up a pre-trial protocol, reflecting the actions of the parties and other persons involved in the case to disclose, present and exchange the evidence which they intend to rely on as a basis for their claims or defenses and which they intend to use in the case at trial.
Evidence may be presented at the trial stage if the impossibility of presenting at the stage of pre-trial preparation will be justified by the persons who presented the evidence.
In the case provided for by the second part of

Section 156. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, evidence may be presented to the appellate court.
Failure to submit to the court the available evidence by the parties shall exclude the possibility of submitting this evidence to the appellate and cassation courts.
2. The circumstances relevant to the proper resolution of the case shall be determined by the court based on the claims and objections of the parties and other persons involved in the case, considering the rules of substantive and procedural law to be applied. A person shall be entitled to refer only to the evidence disclosed and reflected in the pre-trial record in the course of preparing the case for trial or in the course of the trial, in the cases set forth in paragraph one hereof.
3. The court shall have the right to offer the parties and other persons involved in the case to present the additional evidence necessary for the proper resolution of the case. 
4. In case if it is difficult to the parties and other persons involved in the case to present the evidence, the first instance court upon their request shall assist them in obtaining the evidence. 
Request for rendering assistance in obtaining the evidence necessary for a party, which was left without satisfaction by the first instance court, may be submitted to the appellate court as an appeal petition or during the court hearing.
5. Request for assistance in obtaining evidence shall indicate the evidence and circumstances relevant to the case that can be established or refuted by this evidence, the reasons that prevent obtaining the evidence independently, as well as its location.
6. If necessary, the court shall issue to the person involved in the case an inquiry for obtaining evidence. The person who has the evidence sought by the court shall send it directly to the court or hand it over to the person who has the relevant request of the court to present the evidence to the court. Evidence on corporate disputes shall be sought only by the court and sent directly to the court.
7. In case of failure to notify the court of the reasons for the failure to submit the requested evidence, as well as failure to submit the evidence within the time limit established by the court for reasons deemed disrespectful by the court, guilty officials or other persons not involved in the case shall be subject to administrative offenses in accordance with the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offenses according to the rules established by Chapter 9 of this Code.
8. Imposition of an administrative penalty shall not relieve the person holding the evidence requested by the court from the obligation to submit it to the court. In the event of malicious failure to comply with the requirements of the court, these persons shall be criminally responsible.
9. If a party retains the evidence requested by the court and does not submit it at the request of the court within the time limit established by the court, it shall be assumed that the information contained in it is directed against the interests of this party and shall be considered as recognized by it.
10. The parties to the arbitration proceedings with the consent of the arbitration may apply to the court for assistance in obtaining evidence, which is considered in accordance with the first paragraph of part four of this Article.
Footnote.

Section 157. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 158. Original section/article: 74. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court orders 
1. The court considering the case, on its initiative or in case of satisfaction of the petition of the citizen participating in the case on the need to secure (collect, study) evidence located in another city or district shall assign the relevant court to perform certain procedural actions.
2. The court considering the case, on its initiative or in case of satisfaction of the petitions of the participants of the case, on the need to provide (collect, study) evidence located in another state with which the Republic of Kazakhstan has an agreement on the provision of legal assistance in civil cases, shall send a letter of request in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
3. Court order ruling shall briefly outline the substance of the instant case, information about the parties, circumstances to be investigated, and evidence that should be collected by the court executing the order. This definition shall be mandatory for the court to which it is addressed. The court order ruling shall not be subject to appeal, revision at the request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 159. Original section/article: 74. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated July 11, 2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 160. Original section/article: 75. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for execution of court order 
1. Court order shall be executed during the court hearing according to the rules established by this Code. The persons involved in the case shall be notified of the time and place of the court hearing, but their non-appearance shall not be the obstacle to execution of the order.
2. Court order shall be executed by the court to which it is addressed, within a month from the date of its receipt.
3. The records and all materials collected during execution of the court order shall be immediately sent to the court hearing the case.
4. If the persons participating in the case, or the witnesses, who gave explanations or testimony to the court that carried out the order, appear in the court hearing the case, they shall give explanations and testimony in a general manner.

Section 161. Original section/article: 76. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds to release from proving 
1. The circumstances recognized by the court as publicly available shall not need to be proved.
Publicly available circumstances shall be the circumstances that are not part of the circumstances in proof because they are widely known in a particular area, including to the court and the persons involved in the case.
2. Circumstances established by the court decision that has entered into legal force or by the court ruling on a previously considered civil case shall be binding for the court. Such circumstances shall not be proved again in the proceedings of other civil cases in which the same persons are involved.
3. The court sentence in the criminal case that has entered into legal force, recognizing the right to satisfy a claim, shall be binding for the court hearing the case on the civil law consequences of the person’s actions against whom the court sentence has been pronounced. The court sentence that has entered into legal force shall be binding for the court hearing such a civil case, also regarding the issues whether there have taken place such acts and whether they have been committed by this person, as well as in relation to other circumstances established by the sentence and their legal evaluation.
4. Civil legal consequences of the act committed by a person exempted from criminal liability on the grounds provided for in subparagraphs 3), 4), 9), 10), 11) and 12) of the first part of

Section 162. Original section/article: 36. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be proved again in case of a claim under civil legal proceedings.
5. The guilt of a person in committing an administrative offense, established by the court decision that has entered into legal force in the case of an administrative offense, shall not be proved again in the case of civil law consequences of the same offense committed by this person.
6. The facts that, according to the law, shall be deemed to be established, shall not be proved in the civil proceedings.
7. Circumstances shall also be deemed as established without evidence, unless the contrary is proved in the framework of due process of law:
1) correctness of research methods generally accepted in modern science, engineering, art, craft;
2) knowledge of the law by the person;
3) knowledge of official and professional obligations by the person;
4) lack of specialized training or education, the person failed to submit documents confirming passing of the training course or having education and not indicated the educational institution or other institution where he/she received specialized training or education.
8. The unlawfulness of an administrative act, established by a court decision in an administrative case that has entered into legal force, shall not be proved again when considering the civil law consequences of the illegality of this act.
Footnote.

Section 163. Original section/article: 76. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 164. Original section/article: 77. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of experts for participation in legal proceedings 
1. The court can involve a full-aged person with special knowledge, not interested in the outcome of the case, to participate in the court hearing or procedural actions in order to assist in collection, examination and evaluation of evidence by giving advice (clarification) and providing assistance in application of scientific and technical means.
The court also shall have the right to involve experts at the request of the party. The persons involved in the case may request the court to involve a particular person with special knowledge as a specialist.
2. Appointment of a specialist shall be indicated in the ruling on the preparation of the case for judicial trial, and during the judicial session – in the court record.
3. The person involved as an expert shall have the right to: know the purpose of his/her involvement; refuse to participate in the proceedings if he/she does not possess the relevant special knowledge and skills; to pose questions to the participants of the procedural actions with the permission of the court; to draw attention of the participants of the procedural actions to the circumstances related to his/her actions in assisting collection, examination and evaluation of evidence when applying scientific and technical means and preparing materials for commissioning of expert evidence; get acquainted with the protocol of the procedural actions in which he/she took part, as well as the relevant part with the court records and make statements and comments to be recorded in the court records regarding the completeness and correctness of the recording of the course and results of actions taken with his/her participation; receive reimbursement of expenses incurred by him/her in connection with participation in the procedural actions, and receive remuneration for the work performed, if participation in the proceedings is not part of his/her official duties.
4. The person appointed as the specialist should: appear at the call of the court; participate in the procedural actions and legal proceedings, use special knowledge, skills, scientific and technical means; give advice; give explanations about the actions he/she performs including by the use technical means of communication. The specialist conclusion on all issues that arise should be submitted to the court in writing or in electronic form.
5. Participation of a teacher and/or a psychologist shall be binding when during the procedural actions it is necessary to determine the opinion of a minor child that has reached the age of ten years on the subject of dispute.
6. A teacher and (or) a psychologist shall have the right to get acquainted with the materials of the civil case characterizing the personality of a minor, prior to the beginning of the examination, with the permission of the presiding judge, to ask the minor some questions for clarification of his/her opinion on the subject of the dispute, and when the procedural action is over to reflect his/her participation in the court hearing.
7. Examination of a child over ten years old shall be carried out with the participation of a teacher and/or a psychologist. At the time of the child’s examination, his/her legal representatives may be removed from the courtroom according to the protocol-related court decision. After the return of legal representatives to the courtroom, they should be informed of the content of the child’s opinion and given the opportunity to ask him/her questions. After finding out the child’s opinion on the subject of the dispute, the child shall be removed from the courtroom.
8. When considering investment disputes, the court shall have the right to request the opinion of experts of the International Council at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 165. Original section/article: 77. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 166. Original section/article: 78. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Scientific and technical means in the process of proving 
1. Scientific and technical means in the process of proving in the case can be used by the court, parties, as well as an expert and specialist in the performance of their procedural duties provided for by this Code.
2. An expert may be invited by the court to assist in the use of scientific and technical means.
3. The use of scientific and technical means shall be recognized as admissible if:
1) it is expressly provided for by the law or does not contradict its norms and principles;
2) scientifically sound;
3) ensures the proceedings efficiency;
4) safe.
4. The results of covert application of scientific and technical means may not be used as evidence in the civil proceedings, unless this application is permitted by the law and (or) this evidence is recognized and not contested by the party against whom they are directed.
5. The use of scientific and technical means shall be recorded in the certificate submitted by a party, or the record of the relevant procedural actions, or the court hearing record. Certificate or record shall indicate the name of the scientific and technical means, conditions and order of their use, the objects to which these means were applied, and the results of their use.
6. Examination, storage of documents and other materials obtained using scientific and technical means, and their use shall be carried out in the manner provided for in Articles 96 and 98 of this Code.

Section 167. Original section/article: 79. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explanations of persons involved in the case 
1. Explanations of the persons involved in the case about the circumstances known to them that are relevant to the case shall be subject to investigation and evaluation along with other gathered evidence.
Explanations of these persons may be oral and written.
2. Recognition of the facts by a party upon which the other party bases its claims or objections shall release the latter party from the need to further prove these facts. The recognition of the fact by the party shall be entered in the court record. If the recognition of the fact shall be set forth in a written statement or in the form of an electronic document, it shall be attached to the case.
3. The court shall not accept the recognition of facts if there are doubts that it has been committed with the aim of concealing the actual circumstances of the case or under the influence of fraud, violence, threat or delusion, as indicated in the court decision. In this case, these facts shall be subject to proof on a general basis.
Footnote.

Section 168. Original section/article: 79. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 169. Original section/article: 80. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Testimony 
1. Any person who knows any information about the circumstances relevant to the case may be a witness. The testimony of a person shall not be deemed as proof if the person cannot specify the source of information.
2. The person requesting to call a witness should inform the court of his/her last name, first name, patronymic and place of residence or place of work, and justify the need to examine this witness.
3. The following persons are not subject to be examined as a witness:
1) persons who, due to their young age, physical or mental disabilities, are not able to correctly perceive facts and provide accurate testimony about them, except for cases involving disputes on raising children;
2) representatives in civil, administrative cases or representatives, defence counsel in a criminal case, a case of an administrative offence - about the circumstances that became known to them in connection with the performance of the duties of a representative or defence counsel;
3) judge - on issues of keeping the secrecy of the conference when discussing the circumstances of the case when making a decision or sentence;
4) arbitrator, juror - about the circumstances that became known to them in connection with performance of their duties;
5) mediator, judge who conducted the mediation procedure - about the circumstances that became known to them in connection with the conduct of the mediation procedure, except in cases provided for by the law;
6) clergymen - about the circumstances that became known to them from the persons who trusted them during confession;
7) other persons specified in the law.
3-1. The Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be obliged to testify on the circumstances that have become known to her/him in connection with the performance of her/his official duties. He/she shall be entitled to refuse to testify and shall not be subjected to any liability whatsoever for doing so.
4. A person shall have the right to refuse to testify in court against himself/herself, his/her wife/husband and close relatives, as defined by the law.
Footnote.

Section 170. Original section/article: 80. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); № 91-VII of 29.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 171. Original section/article: 81. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obligations and rights of witness 
1. A person summoned to the court as a witness shall be obliged to appear in court at the appointed time and give truthful testimony.
2. A witness may be interviewed by the court at the place of his/her stay or with the use of technical means of communication if due to illness, old age, disability, remoteness of the location or other valid reasons, he/she is unable to appear when summoned by the court.
3. For giving a false testimony and refusing to give testimony on the grounds not provided by the law, the witness shall be liable under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Witness shall have the right for reimbursement of expenses related to summons and receive monetary compensation in connection with the loss of time. The amount of expenses and compensation shall be determined by the budget legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 172. Original section/article: 81. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication);

Section 173. Original section/article: 82. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Commissioning of a forensic examination 
1. Forensic examination shall be appointed in cases where circumstances relevant to the case can be established as a result of the study of the objects, conducted by an expert on the basis of special scientific knowledge. Possession of such knowledge by other persons involved in the civil proceedings shall not exempt the court from the need to appoint an examination in appropriate cases.
2. The presence in the case of certificates of audits, inspections, findings of departmental inspections, as well as written consultations of experts, reports of valuers shall not replace the expert’s opinion and shall not exclude the possibility of commissioning of a forensic examination on the same issues.
3. The court shall force commissioning of a forensic examination at the request of a party or at its own initiative.
4. At the request of a party and other persons involved in the case, about falsification of written evidence, the court shall have the right to appoint a relevant examination.
5. A person not interested in the case and having special scientific knowledge may be summoned as an expert. Commissioning of a forensic examination may be entrusted to:
1) employees of the forensic bodies;
2) individuals engaged in forensic activities on the basis of a license;
3) in a single order to other persons with special scientific knowledge, in accordance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Forensic Expert Activity”.
6. The persons involved in the case may request the court to assign a forensic examination to a specific person who has the necessary special scientific knowledge.
The court order to summon a person who is entrusted to conduct examination in a one-time procedure shall be obligatory for the head of the organization where the person works.
7. Each person involved in the case shall have the right to submit to the court questions that should be put to the expert. Finally, the range of questions on which the expert should give an opinion shall be determined by the court. The court is obliged to motivate the rejection of the proposed questions in the determination of commissioning of a forensic examination.
8. If a party refuses to participate in the expertise or puts obstacles in its conduct (does not appear for examination, does not provide the experts with materials necessary for examination, does not provide opportunities for examination of objects belonging to him/her that are impossible or difficult to submit to the court), but due to circumstances without the participation of this party, it is impossible to conduct an examination, the court, depending on the fact which party evades the examination, shall have the right to admit the fact for which the examination was appointed as established or refuted.
9. The court shall make a decision on commissioning of the examination, explain to the expert the rights and obligations provided for in

Section 174. Original section/article: 91. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, and warn about criminal liability for giving a false testimony.
Determination of commissioning of a forensic examination shall include: name of the court; time, location of the examination; name of the parties involved in the case; type of examination; grounds for commissioning of an examination; questions posed to experts; case materials and objects sent for examination, and information about their origin; permission for possible complete or partial destruction of objects, changing their appearance or basic properties during the examination; name of the examination body and (or) name of the person who is entrusted the carry outa forensic examination in a one-time procedure; name of the party that should pay for it. The court ruling on the commissioning of a forensic examination shall be binding for the authorities or persons to whom it is addressed, and is within their competence. 
The examination shall be carried out in the terms established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Forensic Expert Activity” dated February 10, 2017. The definition of commissioning of an examination shall not be subject to appeal and review at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments of disagreement with the definition can be included in the appeal, request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 175. Original section/article: 82. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 45-VI dated February 10, 2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law), № 91-VI, dated July 11, 2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law).

Section 176. Original section/article: 83. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obtaining of samples 
1. Judge shall be entitled to obtain the necessary samples for examination, which reflect the properties of a living person, corpse, animal, substances and materials, for the expert examination in order to establish the circumstances that are important for the proper consideration and resolution of the case.
Samples shall also include samples of materials, substances, raw materials, finished products.
2. Reasoned determination on obtaining samples shall be made, which indicates: the person who will obtain samples; the person (organization) from whom samples should be obtained; which samples and in what quantity should be obtained; when and to whom the person should come to obtain samples; when and to whom samples should be submitted after they are obtained.
3. Samples can be obtained by the judge personally, and, if necessary, with the participation of an expert, if this does not involve exposing a person of the opposite sex from whom the samples are taken, and does not require special professional skills. In other cases, samples may be obtained by an expert on the instructions of the judge.
4. Samples can be obtained from the parties, as well as from the third parties.
5. Expert on behalf of the judge shall take the necessary actions and obtain samples. Samples shall be packed and sealed, and then sent to the judge along with an official document drawn up by an expert.
6. In cases where the obtainment of samples is part of an expert study, the specialist can carry out the obtainment of samples.
7. Protocol for obtaining samples shall describe the actions taken to obtain samples, sequence of actions, scientific and research methods and other methods and procedures applied, as well as the samples themselves, conditions for their packaging and storage.

Section 177. Original section/article: 84. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Samples obtaining by a specialist or an expert from a living person 
1. Judge shall send to a specialist a person from whom samples should be obtained, as well as the definition with the appropriate instruction. The definition should indicate the rights and obligations of all participants in these procedural actions.
2. Expert on the instructions of the judge shall take the necessary actions and receive the samples required for the forensic study. Samples shall be packed and sealed, and then sent to the judge along with the official document drawn up by the expert.
3. After conducting the study, the expert shall attach the samples to his/her opinion in a packaged and sealed form.
4. In the process of studying by an expert, experimental samples can be made, and he/she should report about it in the conclusion.
5. If samples are obtained on the instructions of the judge by a specialist or an expert, he/she shall draw up an official document, which shall be signed by all participants in the procedural actions and transferred to the judge for inclusion in the case file.
The received samples in the packed and sealed form shall be attached to the case file.

Section 178. Original section/article: 85. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obtaining handwriting samples for comparative studies 
1. In case of an appeal against the authenticity of a person’s signature in the document on whose behalf it is executed, the court is entitled to receive handwriting samples and signature from that person for comparative studies.
2. The court shall make a decision on receipt of handwriting samples and signature from the person that is recorded in the court record.
A person’s failure to submit handwriting and signature samples for a comparative study shall be regarded as recognition by the person of the circumstances to which the party refers in support of its claims or objections.
Handwriting samples and signatures shall be obtained at the court hearing that is reflected in the court record.

Section 179. Original section/article: 86. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Protection of rights of the individual upon obtainment of samples 
1. Methods, scientific and technical means of obtaining samples should be safe for human life and health.
2. The use of complex medical procedures or methods that cause pain or possible negative health effects shall be allowed only after explaining such effects to the person and only with the written consent of the person from whom the samples should be obtained, and if he/she has not reached the full age or has a mental illness, then samples should be obtained with the consent of its legal representatives.

Section 180. Original section/article: 87. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Examination procedure 
1. Examination shall be carried out in the court or out of court, depending on the nature of the examination or impossibility or difficulty of delivering the objects for investigation at the court hearing.
2. During the examination carried out with the permission of the court that ordered the examination, the objects may be damaged or used only to the extent necessary for conducting examination and giving an opinion. The specified permission should be contained in the definition on commissioning of a forensic examination or in a reasoned definition on satisfaction of a forensic expert request or on a partial refusal of the satisfaction.
3. Reliability and admissibility of the expert study objects shall be guaranteed by the court.
4. Objects of the expert study, if their dimensions and properties allow it, shall be transferred to the expert in a packaged and sealed form. In other cases, the court that appointed the examination should ensure the transfer of the expert to the location of the objects of study, unimpeded access to them and the conditions necessary for conducting the study.
5. Persons involved in the case shall have the right to be present during the examination, unless such presence during the examination outside the court may interfere with the normal work of the experts. When the court satisfies the request for the presence during the examination of the persons involved in the case, the said persons shall be notified of the place and time of the examination. Failure to notify persons shall not preclude carrying out the examination.
If the persons involved in the case are present during the examination out of court, the mandatory participation of the bailiff shall be determined by the court.
7. When instructing a forensic examination body to carry out the examination, the court shall send the decision on appointment of the examination and necessary materials to its supervisor. Examination is carried out by the employee of the forensic examination body that is specified in the definition. If a particular expert in the definition on commissioning of an examination is not specified, the choice is made by the head of the forensic examination body. The head should inform about it the court that appointed the examination.
8. The head of the forensic examination body is entitled:
1) having specified the motives, to return to the court without execution the definition on commissioning of an examination, the objects presented for its production in cases if: there is no expert in the forensic examination body with the necessary specialized scientific knowledge; the material and technical base and conditions of this body do not allow solving specific expert tasks; the questions posed to the expert go beyond his/her competence; materials for examination are presented in violation of the requirements provided for by this Code;
2) to request for inclusion in the judicial experts commission of the persons who do not work in this forensic examination body, if their special scientific knowledge is necessary for giving an opinion;
3) to submit to the court that appointed the forensic examination, a motivated application for the extension of the period of the forensic examination.
The head of the forensic examination body shall also have other rights provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Forensic Expert Activity”.
9. The head of the forensic examination body should:
1) upon receipt of the definition on commissioning of a forensic examination and objects of research, entrust the production to a specific forensic expert or a commission of the forensic experts of the given forensic examination body, taking into account the requirements of the law;
2) without violating the principle of independence of a forensic expert, to ensure control over the observance of the period for conducting a forensic examination, comprehensiveness, completeness and objectivity of the study conducted, preservation of forensic examination objects;
3) not disclose information that became known to him/her in connection with the organization of a forensic examination.
10. If the examination is supposed to be entrusted to a person who is not an employee of the forensic examination body, the court, before deciding on the commissioning, should verify its identity and the absence of grounds for challenging the expert, provided for in

Section 181. Original section/article: 39. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
11. Reimbursement of expenses related to the examination, as well as the remuneration of the expert shall be made according to the rules established by Articles 110 and 111 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 182. Original section/article: 87. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 10, 2017 № 45-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of one year from the date of entry into force of this Law).

Section 183. Original section/article: 88. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sole and single-discipline expert panel 
1. Expert examination shall be performed by the single expert or expert panel.
2. Single-discipline expert panel shall be appointed if complex expert investigations are required, and shall be performed by at least two experts of one specialty. 
3. Each forensic expert shall conduct legal forensic investigation independently to the full extent in case of single-discipline expert panel. Members of expert panel shall analyze received results and having reached a consensus, shall sign a conclusion or message on impossibility to provide a conclusion. In the event of differences between the experts, each of them shall provide a separate conclusion, or expert, which conclusion is different from conclusions of other members, shall form it in the conclusion separately.
4. Court decision on single-discipline expert panel shall be binding on chief of legal expertise authority. Chief of legal expertise authority shall be entitled to make an independent decision on single-discipline expert panel according to submitted materials and to organize its performance.

Section 184. Original section/article: 89. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Comprehensive expert examination 
1. Comprehensive expert examination shall be assigned when investigations on the basis of various subject areas are required for establishment of facts related with the case, and shall be conducted by experts of various specialties within their competences.
2. Following information shall be stated in the conclusion of the comprehensive expert examination: what expert examinations, in what scope they were conducted by each expert and what conclusions he received. Each expert shall sign part of conclusion, where these investigations are contained. 
3. Based on the results of investigations, conducted by each expert, they shall form a general conclusion (conclusions) on circumstance, for establishment of which the expert examination was assigned. General conclusion (conclusions) shall be formulated and signed by the experts, which are qualified in evaluation of received results. If argument for final conclusion of the panel or its part is facts, established by one of the experts (separate experts), such information shall be stated in the conclusion.
4. If there are differences between the experts, investigation results are executed pursuant to third part of

Section 185. Original section/article: 88. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code.
5. Comprehensive expert examination, entrusted to legal expertise authority, shall be entrusted to its chief. Chief of legal expertise authority shall be entitled to make a decision on comprehensive expert examination according to submitted materials and to organize it.

Section 186. Original section/article: 90. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Supplementary and repeated expert examination 
1. Supplementary expert examination shall be assigned in case of insufficient clarity or completeness of conclusion, and also if it is necessary to solve additional issues, related to previous investigation.
2. Supplementary expert examination can be entrusted to the same or other expert.
3. Repeated expert examination shall be assigned for investigation of the same objects and getting answers on earlier raised questions, if expert conclusion is insufficiently substantiated, or its conclusion causes doubts, or procedures of expert examination were violated.
4. Motives of disagreement with the results of previous expertise shall be stated in decision on assignment of the repeated expert examination.
5. Repeated expert examination shall be performed by the expert panel. Experts, who performed previous expert examination, can attend repeated expert examination; however, they do not participate in expert investigation and conclusion drawing up.
6. Expert (experts) shall be provided with conclusions of the previous experts for supplementary and repeated expert examinations.
7. If second or subsequent expert examinations are assigned by several causes, one of which is related to supplementary expert examination, and others to repeated expert examination, such expert examination shall be conducted according to rules of repeated expert examination.

Section 187. Original section/article: 91. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Expert rights and obligations 
1. An expert shall be entitled to: familiarize with case materials, related to object of expert examination; make an application on submission of additional materials, required for expert examination; participate in legal proceedings and court session, ask questions, related to object of expert examination, to persons participated in it, with the permission of the court; familiarize with protocol of separate procedural action, where it participated, and also with appropriate part of court records and to make notes concerning completeness and accuracy of performed actions and received results; make a conclusion on circumstances, detected during legal expert examination; present conclusion and give evidences against on native language or language in possession; use free services of interpreter; propose a disqualification of interpreter; appeal against actions of persons, violating legal practices during expert examination; get reimbursement of expenditures, incurred during expert examination; get a remuneration for performed work, if legal expertise is not within its official duties.
2. Expert shall not be entitled to: negotiate with persons, participating in the case, on issues, related to expert examination, besides court; select materials for expert investigation independently; conduct investigations, which can lead to complete or partial objects destruction, change of their appearance or principal properties, if there is no special permission of the court, which assigned expert examination.
3. Expert shall be obliged to: appear on call of the court; conduct comprehensive, complete and objective investigation of submitted objects, provide justified written conclusion on raised questions; refuse in conclusion provision and draw up a reasoned written message on impossibility to provide a conclusion and send it to the court in cases, provided for articles 93 of the present Code; bear evidences on issues, related to the investigation and this conclusion; ensure safety of researchable objects; not to disclose information about circumstances of the case and other information, which became known to him due to expert examination. 
4. Expert bears criminal responsibility for provision of deliberately false conclusion.
5. Expert, who is employee of legal expertise authority, is considered as acquainted with his rights and obligations and notified about criminal responsibility for provision of deliberately false conclusion.

Section 188. Original section/article: 92. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Expert conclusion 
1. Expert conclusion is conclusions on issues, raised for expert court or parties, submitted in written form, provided for the present Code, and based on investigation of expertise objects, performed using special scientific knowledge. 
Expert conclusion shall be drawn up within the term, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On legal examination activity”. If there are circumstances, preventing expert examination within the established period, the expert shall be obliged to inform the court in written. 
2. The conclusion shall be drawn up by the expert (experts) after performance of necessary investigations on its behalf taking into account its results, certified by his (their) signature and personal stamp and sent to the court, which assigned the expert examination. If expert examination is performed by the legal expertise authority, signature of the expert (experts) is certified with stamp of the mentioned authority.
3. Following information shall be stated in the expert conclusion: date of its execution, terms and place of expert examination; causes of expert examination; information about court, information about legal expertise authority and (or) expert (experts), which are entrusted to perform an expert examination (full name (if it is given in identity card), education, specialty, relevant professional experience, academic degree and rank, current position); mark, certified with expert signature that it was informed on criminal responsibility for deliberately false conclusion; issues, raised for expert (experts); information on participants of the process, presented during expert examination, and their explanations; research objects; content and results of investigations with used methods; assessment of the results of performed researches, justification and drawing of conclusion on issues, raised for expert (experts).
4. A conclusion shall contain justification of impossibility to answer on all or some questions, if circumstances, stated in

Section 189. Original section/article: 93. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code, were detected during the investigation.
5. Materials, demonstrating expert conclusion (photo boards, schemes, graphs, tables and other materials), certified in accordance with the procedure specified in part 2 of the present article, are attached to the conclusion and are its element. Objects, remained after the investigation, including samples, shall be attached to the conclusion. 
6. Expert evidences, submitted during the enquiry, performed in accordance with the procedure specified in

Section 190. Original section/article: 94. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code, are evidences only in part of explanation, amendment or specification of earlier conclusion. 
7. Expert conclusion is not binding upon the court, but it shall be stated in court decision in case of disagreement with it.
Footnote.

Section 191. Original section/article: 92. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 45-VI dated 10.02.2017 (shall be upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication).

Section 192. Original section/article: 93. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Message on impossibility to provide a conclusion 
If expert assures that raised issues are outside his special knowledge or submitted materials are inapplicable or insufficient for conclusion and cannot be compensate, or state of science and expert practice do not allow answering on raised questions, he draws up a reasoned message on impossibility to make a conclusion and sends it to the court.

Section 193. Original section/article: 94. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Expert interrogation 
1. Expert interrogation shall be performed only after publication of the expert conclusion, if it is insufficiently clear, with gaps, for implementation of which supplementary researches are not required, or it is necessary to specify methods and terms, used by the expert. 
2. Expert cannot be interrogated on circumstances, not related to his conclusion, which became known to him due to performance of forensic psychiatric examination and forensic medical examination in respect of live people.
3. Party, at the request of which an expert examination was assigned, will be the first in case of party interrogation. If expert examination was performed upon agreement of the parties, or upon court initiative, plaintiff shall be the first, who will ask questions to the expert, and then the defendant. The court shall be entitled to ask questions to the expert at any moment of the interrogation.

Section 194. Original section/article: 95. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Material evidences 
Material evidences are objects, if there are causes to suppose that they can be mean for establishment of circumstances, which are important for the case, by their appearance, properties or other features.

Section 195. Original section/article: 96. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Storage and inspection of material evidences 
1. Material evidences are kept on file or given to luggage room of material evidences of the court. The court takes measures on protection of material evidences in unchanged state.
2. Objects, which cannot be delivered to the court, are kept at place of their location. They shall be inspected by the court during the case preparation to litigation or in the course of a judicial proceeding. Appearance, properties and state of objects shall be recorded in the protocol of separate procedural act, and if necessary, these objects can be depicted, recorded on video and sealed.
3. Material evidences are inspected by the court with the participation of the persons, taking part in the case, and experts, if necessary. Protocol of material evidences inspection is attached to the case.
4. Expenses on material evidences keeping shall be allocated between the parties pursuant to

Section 196. Original section/article: 109. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code.

Section 197. Original section/article: 97. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inspection of material evidences subject to quick spoiling 
1. Material evidences, which are subject to quick spoiling, shall be inspected and investigated by the court not later than the next working day after making an application, and then are returned to person, who submitted them for inspection.
2. Persons, participating in the case, shall be informed on place and time of inspection and investigation, if they can arrive at location of the material evidences before their inspection. Non-attendance of notified persons, participating in the case, shall not prevent inspection and instigation of material evidences. Data of inspection and instigation are recorded in the protocol.
3. Inspection of material evidences, which are subject to quick spoiling, and recording of its results, shall be performed in order, provided for parts 2 and 3 of

Section 198. Original section/article: 98. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Material evidence disposal 
1. Material evidences shall be returned to persons, from whom they were received, or transferred to persons, who are owners of these objects, or sold in order, determined by the court, besides objects, provided for first part of

Section 199. Original section/article: 97. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code, after coming into legal force of court decision.
2. Objects, which cannot belong to citizens in accordance with the law, shall be transferred to appropriate organizations.
3. Material evidences shall be returned to persons, from whom they were received after their inspection and investigation by the court before completion of proceedings, if the last make an application and satisfaction of such application will not prevent correct adjudication.
4. The court shall make a decision on disposal of material evidences, which are subject to quick spoiling, which is not subject to appeal, review upon the request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 200. Original section/article: 98. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication).

Section 201. Original section/article: 99. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evidences on material objects 
1. Evidences shall be submitted on material objects, containing: audio-, video records, including received using surveillance and record deices, materials of photo and shooting, and other materials on electronic and digital media, which are important for the case and corresponding to relevance and admissibility criteria.
2. Person, submitting evidences on tangible media, or made an application on rendering of assistance in their requisitioning, shall indicate when, who and in what conditions made records.
Failure to inform such information excludes possibility of such evidences investigation before the court in session.

Section 202. Original section/article: 100. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Written evidences 
1. Written evidences are acts, documents, personal or business letters, containing information about circumstances, which are important for the case.
2. Written evidence may be presented by the parties and other participants of the case, or, at their request, demanded by the court. Written evidence may also be requested by the court on its initiative.
3. Persons, who cannot provide written evidence, requested by the court, or provide it within the period, established by the court, shall inform the court, stating causes of failure to fulfill requirements of the court.
4. Written evidences, requested by the court from citizens and legal entities, shall be sent to the court. The court may issue a request to person, making an application on requisitioning of material evidences, for the right of its receipt for the subsequent submission to the court.
5. Written evidences shall be submitted in the original. If copy of the document was submitted, the court shall be entitled to request for submission of the original, if necessary and pursuant to fifth part of

Section 203. Original section/article: 68. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code.
If it is difficult to submit the original of the written evidence to the court, the court shall be entitles to request for submission of certified copies and extract from such document or to inspect and investigate such document and other written evidences at place of their storage.
6. Evidence in the form of electronic documents or their copies certified by an electronic digital signature shall be submitted to the court in compliance with the rules established by this Article.
An electronic document shall be recognized as evidence, except for cases where the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan does not allow the use of only an electronic document.
Footnote.

Section 204. Original section/article: 100. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 205. Original section/article: 101. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Return of written evidences 
1. Original written evidences and also personal letters shall be returned upon the request of persons, provided them, after court decision coming into legal force.
2. Written evidences can be returned to persons, who submitted them, before court decision coming into legal force, if the court considers this possible. 
3. Copy (Xerox copy) of the written evidence, certified by the court, shall be left if original written evidence is returned.
4. Evidences on physical media shall be kept in file. They can be returned to the person, who submitted it upon the application, after court decision coming into legal force.
Copy of record, made at his expense, can be issued upon the application of the person, participating in the case. Receipt on record copy receipt is withdrawn.
Chapter 8. COURT COSTS

Section 206. Original section/article: 102. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court costs concept and composition 
Court costs consist of state duty and charges, related to proceedings.

Section 207. Original section/article: 103. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
State duty 
The procedure for payment and the amount of the state fee, as well as the grounds for exemption from its payment or granting a deferral for its payment are determined by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code).
Payment of state fees to the budget must be confirmed by payment or cash documents, and when paying via cashpoint machines, electronic terminals, remote communication channels and the digital government payment gateway - by checks and receipts on paper or in electronic form.
Footnote.

Section 208. Original section/article: 103. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.12.2023 № 46-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 209. Original section/article: 104. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Amount of the claim 
1. Amount of the claim shall be determined in:
1) in legal action for recovery of monetary funds – presented for amount charge;
2) in legal action for recovery of compensation for moral harm in monetary terms, caused by dissemination of information, discrediting honor, dignity and business reputation, – presented for amount charge;
3) in legal action for recovery of amount of losses, incurred due to distribution of information, discrediting business reputation, – presented for amount charge;
4) in actions for partition of property, which is joint or common property, on determination or allocation of share in property, which is common property, – by cost of requested property, determined by market prices at place of property at the moment of claim filing;
5) in claims for alimony payments – by total payment per one year; 
6) in claims for periodic urgent payments and deliveries – total of all payments and deliveries, but no more than per three years;
7) in claims for unlimited or payments for life – total of payments and deliveries, but no more than per three years;
8) in claims for decrease or increase of payments or deliveries – total amount on decrease or increase of which an applicant pretends, but no more than per one year;
9) in claims for suspension of payments and deliveries – total of remained payments or deliveries, but no more than per one year;
10) in claims for early termination of tenancy agreement, except dwelling rate, – total of payments for property use within remained duration of the contract (agreement), but no more than three years;
11) in claims for ownership for real estate units – by market value of such objects at their location at the date of claim filing;
12) in claims for request of immovable and movable property from unlawful possession by other persons – by market value of property under search, but no lower than estimation by insurance contract, concluded by citizen, and no lower than balance sheet value of the property of legal entity, at the date of claim submission to the court;
13) in claims for cancellation of purchase and sale contracts, pledge agreement, donation agreement of movable and immovable property, other contracts, related to subsequent return of received property on transactions as provided in third part of

Section 210. Original section/article: 157-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, – market value of property at the date of claim submission to the court. Amount of the claim shall not increase cost of property, stated in the contract, in case of pledge agreement contestation;
14) in claims, consisting of several independent requirements, - total amount of all requirements.
2. Amount of the claim shall be stated by the plaintiff. If price does not correspond to actual price of property under the search, amount of the claim shall be determined by the judge.
Footnote.

Section 211. Original section/article: 104. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 49-VI dated 27.02.2017 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication).

Section 212. Original section/article: 105. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Additional payment of state duty 
1. If it is difficult to determine amount of the claim at the moment of its filing, amount of state duty shall be preliminary established by the judge during case preparation to proceeding and it shall be stated in decision on case preparation to proceeding.
2. If the court determines amount of the claim, considering and resolving the case on collecting of unpaid amount of the state duty, amount of the state duty subject to additional payment shall be specified in the court decision.
3. If amount of the claim is increased, consideration of the case concerning increased claims shall continue when the plaintiff provides evidences for payment of the state duty within the period, established by the court.
If document on payment of the state duty was not submitted, the case is considered and resolved within the initial limits, indicating this in the court decision. Application on increase of claims shall be returned to the plaintiff without consideration. Arguments on disagreement with court conclusions on payment of state duty shall be included into the appeal.
4. If, under the terms of the agreements concluded within the framework of the conciliation procedure between the parties in the courts of the first and appellate instances, the amount of claims is increased or the subject of the dispute is changed, the additional payment of the state fee shall not be made. The distribution of court costs shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 213. Original section/article: 105. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 214. Original section/article: 106. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Exemption from payment of the state duty. Deferral of state duty repayment 
1. The plaintiff's exemption from payment of state fee for a claim filed with the court or the granting of a deferral for payment of state fee is carried out on the grounds provided for by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code).
2. If persons, specified in articles 54 and 55 of this Code, are refused from the claim filed by them, the plaintiff, in whose interests the claim was filed, shall be obliged to pay the state duty according to the standard procedure within the period, established by the court, if he insists on consideration of the claim and is not exempted from payment of the state duty. In this case, the court shall defer consideration of the case.
If state duty is not paid, the claim shall not be considered and returned to the plaintiff. A private complaint may be filed on decision of the court, a petition may be filed by the prosecutor to the Court of Appeal, which decision is final.
3. The court for consumer protection claims, files by a citizen, makes a delay in the payment of the state fee until the appropriate decision is made, which is determined. The definition is not subject to appeal or revision at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments about disagreement with the definition may be included in the appeal, the prosecutor's petition. When making a decision, the court assigns the costs associated with the payment of the state fee to the party not in favor of which the decision was made.
Footnote.

Section 215. Original section/article: 106. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication); dated 12.12.2023 № 46-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 216. Original section/article: 107. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Repayment of state duty 
Repayment procedure of the state duty shall be determined in the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and other Obligatory Payments to the budget” (Tax Code).

Section 217. Original section/article: 108. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Expenses related to the proceedings
Expenses related to the proceedings include:
1) amounts payable to witnesses, experts and specialists;
2) expenses, related to on-site inspection;
3) expenses, related to storage of material evidences;
4) expenses on search of defendant and (or) child;
5) expenses, related to publication and announcement by the case;
6) expenses related to notification and call of parties and other persons, participating in the case, to the court;
7) travel expenses of the parties and third parties and rent of residential premises, incurred by them due to appearance in the court;
8) expenses on payment of assistance of the representative;
9) other expenses, recognized by the court as reimbursable, including incurred by the parties during obligatory mediation of the dispute upon subsequent appeal to the court.

Section 218. Original section/article: 109. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Apportionment of court fees between parties 
1.The party in favor of which the decision was made, the court shall adjudge all court expenses, incurred during the case. If the claim was satisfied partially, expenses shall be adjudged to the plaintiff in proportion to amount of the claim, satisfied by the court, and to the defendant in proportion to part of the claim, in which the plaintiff was refused.
2. If dispute arose in the result of violation by a person, participating in the case, letter-of-claim or other pre-trial dispute resolution procedure, provided by the law or agreement, including violation of time limit for provision of a response to the claim, failure to provide a response to the claim, as well as violation of the extrajudicial settlement of a dispute established by the Law, the court shall adjudge such court expenses to this person regardless of the results of the case.
The court is entitled to charge all court expenses by the case to a person, abusing procedural laws or not performing procedural duties, including violation of time limit, established by the court, and procedure on provision of evidences without good cause, established by this Code, if it led to delay of court process, prevention of the case consideration and adoption of legal and justified judicial act.
3. If courts of appeal, cassation instances change their decision or make a new decision, not transferring the case for a new consideration, they shall change apportionment of court expenses if the party provides evidences of the expenses, incurred in relevant court instances.
4. Court of first instance makes a decision on the application of the party on collection of the court expenses, incurred during consideration of the case in courts of appeal, cassation instances, if the petition was discussed during the consideration of the case in judicial instances, but court expenses were not collected due to the need of verification of the authenticity of the submitted documents and this shall be indicated in the decision of the court of the relevant instance.
5. Application on recovery of legal costs shall be considered by the court during court session with notification of the parties. Failure to appear by the parties, which were duly notified about time and place of the court session, is not an obstacle to consideration of the application. The application may be filed within one month from the date of the last judicial act entry into legal force.
6. A copy of the judicial act no later than three working days from the date of entry into force shall be sent by the court to the tax authority at the place of registration (citizen) or location (legal entity) of the legal representative, the costs of paying for the services of which shall be compensated by the court.
Footnote.

Section 219. Original section/article: 109. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 220. Original section/article: 110. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Amount, subject to payment by experts, specialists, witnesses, and interpreters 
1. Witnesses, experts, specialists and interpreters are compensated for expenses, incurred due to appearance to the court, on travel, rent of premises, and daily benefits are paid to persons, sent to business trips, in the established amounts. Expert and specialist are also compensated for cost of their chemical reagents and other consumables, spent by them during performance of the assigned work, and payment for using of equipment, and utilities.
2. Salary is preserved for employees, which are called to the court as witnesses, during their absence due to appearance in the court. Witnesses, which are not in employment relations, shall be compensated for their withdrawing from their usual activities, taking into account actual time and in the basis of minimum monthly salary.
3. Performed work, which is not part of duty area of experts, which are attracted on a single-time basis, and specialists, shall be paid on behalf of the court. Amount of payment shall be determined by the court as agreed with the parties and shall be preliminarily transferred to the account, opened in procedure, established by the budget legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by the party, making an application.
4. Payment of amounts to witnesses, experts, specialists, and payment for expertise by forensic examination bodies shall be made by the party, who made an application. If the application was filed by both parties or call of witness, appointment of expertise, attraction of specialist are performed upon the initiative of the court, the required amounts shall be paid by the parties in equal parts.
5. Amounts payable for expertise by legal expertise authority shall be paid to the relevant budget in form of preliminary payment by the party (parties, which filed an application, or by the party, entrusted by the court. If amount was not paid within the period, established by the court, expenses, related to expertise, shall be entrusted to person, who failed to pay (pay untimely), regardless of the results of the case pursuant to second part of the

Section 221. Original section/article: 109. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
6. Payment of amounts to experts and specialists, when one or both parties are exempted from payment of costs, shall be made at the expense of the budget funds according to the results of the case consideration on the basis of court decision.
Procedure for payment of amounts due to experts and specialists shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 222. Original section/article: 111. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Payment of amounts to witnesses, experts, specialists and interpreters 
1. Amounts due to witnesses, experts and specialists shall be paid by the court from an account, opened in accordance with the budget legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, when they complete their duties.
2. Payment of amounts due to translators shall be made at the expense of the republican budget in order, determined by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 223. Original section/article: 112. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of free legal assistance 
1. When preparing a case for trial, a judge or a court, when considering a case, is obliged to exempt the following persons from paying for legal assistance and reimbursement of expenses related to representation, and to charge them at the expense of budgetary funds when considering cases of:
1) plaintiffs in disputes on compensation for damage caused by the death of the breadwinner;
2) plaintiffs in disputes on compensation for damage caused by work-related health damage or caused by a criminal offense;
3) plaintiffs and defendants in disputes related to ensuring and protecting the rights and legitimate interests of minors left without parental care;
4) plaintiffs and defendants in disputes on the recovery of alimony for the maintenance of children in large families who are recoverers in the framework of enforcement proceedings on the recovery of alimony;
5) plaintiffs and defendants in disputes related to ensuring and protecting the rights and legitimate interests of victims of domestic violence in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative offenses;
6) plaintiffs and defendants in disputes not related to entrepreneurial activity, who are participants of the Great Patriotic War, persons equated by benefits to participants of the Great Patriotic War, as well as veterans of military operations on the territory of other states, conscripts, persons with disabilities of the first and second category, pensioners by age;
7) plaintiffs in disputes on compensation for harm rehabilitated in accordance with the law.
2. The amount of payment for legal assistance provided by a lawyer, legal consultant, and reimbursement of expenses related to defense and representation shall be established by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.. 
The procedure for payment of legal assistance provided by a lawyer, legal consultant, and reimbursement of expenses related to defense and representation is established by the rules for payment of legal assistance approved by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
3. Documents and other evidence confirming the right of this person to receive legal assistance at the expense of budgetary funds must be attached to the application of a person for exemption from payment for legal assistance and reimbursement of expenses related to his representation in the cases provided for in part one of this Article. 
4. The court issues a ruling on the release of a person from paying for legal assistance and reimbursement of expenses related to his representation, or on the refusal to satisfy the application, which is not subject to appeal, review at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments about disagreement with the ruling may be included in the appeal, the prosecutor's petition.
5. A court decision to exempt a person from paying for legal aid and reimbursing expenses regarding representation shall be promptly forwarded in writing or in the form of an electronic document via the unified digital legal assistance system to the territorial bar association and the relevant chamber of legal advisers at the location of the court hearing the civil case, who are obliged to ensure the participation of a lawyer or legal adviser in court within the time limit established by the court.
Footnote.

Section 224. Original section/article: 112. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.06.2022 № 128-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 225. Original section/article: 113. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compensation of expenses on payment of representative assistance 
1. At the request of the party, in favor of which the decision was made, the court shall adjudge expenses, incurred by it on payment for the assistance of a representative (several representatives), participated in the process and which is not party of labor relations, in the amount of actually incurred expenses by the party. Total amount of these expenses on recovery claims shall not exceed ten percent of the satisfied part of the claim. Amount of expenses by non-property claims shall be recovered within due limits, but shall not exceed three hundred monthly calculation indexes.
2. If the court makes a decision in favor of the party, to which qualified legal assistance was rendered by an attorney at the expense of budget funds, in the manner and on the grounds established by the law, these expenses shall be charged to the state budget.

Section 226. Original section/article: 114. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recovery of damages for waste of time 
1. The court can reimburse damages for actual loss of time in favor of another person, participating in the case, on application of the person, participating in the case, on the part which declared clearly unwarranted claim or dispute against substantiated claim, or systematically prevented correct and prompt consideration and resolution of the case.
2. Amount of damages shall be determined by the court, taking into account specific circumstances, including on the basis of current standards for remuneration of the relevant labor in the area.
3. Justified application for recovery of damages from the party shall be filed before completion of the case consideration and shall be considered by the court together with the basic requirement. Document, confirming payment of the state duty in accordance with the procedure, established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and other Obligatory Payments to the budget” (Tax Code) shall be attached to application on reimbursement of damages.

Section 227. Original section/article: 115. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Allocation of court expenses in case of abandonment of a claim, settlement agreement or dispute (conflict) settlement agreement in order of mediation, dispute settlement in order of participative procedure 
1. If the plaintiff refuses from the claim, court costs, incurred by him/her, shall not be reimbursed by the defendant. The plaintiff shall compensate court costs to the defendant incurred by him/her in connection with conduct of a case, including at the stage of pre-trial settlement of the dispute.
If the plaintiff refused to support his claims in the result of their voluntary satisfaction by the defendant after the filing of the claim, the court shall recover all incurred court costs at the request of the plaintiff. If the claim is not caused by the defendant’s culpable conduct, then judicial expenses are borne by the plaintiff if the defendant’s claim was recognized by defendant in the court.
2. If the parties enter settlement agreement or agreement on settlement of dispute (conflict) through mediation, an agreement on settlement of dispute by means of participatory procedure, which were approved by the courts of first, appeal instances, paid state duty shall be returned from the budget.
Concluding an settlement agreement, on settlement of dispute (conflict) through mediation or agreement on dispute resolution using a participatory procedure in cassation court, paid state duty shall be returned from the budget at the amount of fifty percent of the amount, paid during appeal to the court of cassational instance.
Other court expenses are distributed by the court between the parties in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement, agreement on dispute (conflict) settlement through mediation or agreement on dispute settlement using participatory procedure. If this is not stated in the agreements, they are considered as mutually cancelled.
3. If statement of claim was left without consideration on the grounds, stipulated in subparagraphs 6), 8) of

Section 228. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, court costs, incurred by the plaintiff, shall not be reimbursed by the defendant. In such case, the plaintiff shall compensate court costs incurred by him/her in connection with conduct of a case, including at the stage of pre-trial settlement of the dispute to the defendant.
Footnote.

Section 229. Original section/article: 115. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 230. Original section/article: 116. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compensation of legal expenses to the parties 
1. If the claim was completely and partially rejected for persons, who make an application on protection of rights, freedoms and legal interests of other persons and the state (articles 54 and 55 of this Code) in cases, stipulated in this Code, the defendant shall be compensated for legal expenses from the budget, in proportion to part of stated claims in which the plaintiff was refused.
2. In case of satisfaction of such claim, legal expenses shall be compensated by the defendant in order, stipulated in chapter 8 of this Code.

Section 231. Original section/article: 117. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compensation of legal expenses to the parties 
1. State duty, from which the plaintiff was exempted, and costs, related to the proceedings, shall be recovered from the defendant, who is not exempted from payment of court expenses, to the state revenue of completely or proportionally satisfied part of the claim.
2. If the claim was satisfied partially, and the defendant is exempted from payment of court expenses, costs related to the proceedings of the case shall be recovered to the state revenue from the plaintiff, who was not exempted from payment of court expenses, in proportion to the part of rejected claims.
3. If both parties are exempted from payment of court expenses, the costs related to the proceedings of the case shall be charged to budget funds.
4. If the claim was rejected, legal costs, related to the proceedings of the case shall be recovered from the plaintiff to the state revenue.
5. If person, avoiding payments, is put into wanted list, expenses related to detection, shall be recovered from this person in revenue of the state.

Section 232. Original section/article: 118. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
File of individual appeal, making a petition on judicial acts, related to court expenses, by the public prosecutor 
Private claim, a petition can be filed on judicial acts on issues, related to court expenses, by the prosecutor, taking into account features, stipulated in this chapter.
Footnote.

Section 233. Original section/article: 118. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication). 
Chapter 9. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR CONTEMPT OF COURT

Section 234. Original section/article: 119. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Responsibilities for contempt of court 
1. Responsibilities for contempt of court shall be applied by the court for the purpose of implementation of the constitutional equality principle of everybody before the court and the tasks of justice.
2. Guilty persons shall be brought to administrative responsibility in order, stipulated by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative offenses, with features, established by this chapter.
3. If there are signs of criminal offenses in actions of the violator of order, this person can be brought to criminal responsibility.
4. Only one enforcement measure and (or) one kind of responsibility can be applied for performed illegal action (inactivity).

Section 235. Original section/article: 120. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for bringing to responsibility for contempt of the court 
1. The judge (court composition) shall establish the fact of contempt of the court during the court session, if such violation was established, and it shall be declared to the violator immediately during the court session. This fact shall be recorded in the protocol of the proceedings. Protocol on an administrative offence shall not be drawn up. 
2. The person, in respect of whom the fact of contempt of the court has been established, and other persons, participating in the case, shall be entitled to present their explanations.
3. The decision on an administrative offence shall be drawn up by the presiding judge after the end of the court session in a civil case, signed by the judge (the composition of the court).
4. If contempt of the court was demonstrated on court session and violator left the hearing room, if contempt of court is demonstrated outside the court session, and if deviation on attendance was established, protocol on violation shall be drawn up by the court bailiff or other court employee in form of oral order of court chairman or presiding on court session, which shall be indicated in protocol of offense.
5. Protocol on offense together with the required materials shall be sent for consideration to the court pursuant to jurisdiction, established by the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the cases stipulated in fourth part of this article.
6. If there are signs of criminal offense in activity of the violator of court meeting order, the court shall make a decision about it, which is given and (or) is sent to the person, in respect of whom it was made, within three working days, and sent to the prosecutor for pre-trial proceedings with supporting materials.
Footnote.

Section 236. Original section/article: 120. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 10. PROCEDURAL PERIODS

Section 237. Original section/article: 121. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms of legal proceedings 
1. Legal proceedings shall be performed in procedural periods, established by the present Code.
2. If period of legal proceedings was not established by this Code, it shall be assigned by the court. Procedural period, assigned by the court, shall be reasonable and sufficient for legal proceedings.

Section 238. Original section/article: 122. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Calculation of procedural periods 
1. Periods for proceedings shall be determined by the exact calendar date, with the event which will happen, or period of time, which is calculated in years, months, or days. In the latter case, the action can be committed during the period.
2. Course of procedural period, determined by the period, shall start on the next day after calendar date or event, which defined its start.

Section 239. Original section/article: 123. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Completion of procedural periods 
1. Period, which is calculated in years, shall expire in the relevant month and date of the last year of the period.
2. Period, calculated in months, shall expire in the relevant last month of the period. If end of the period, calculated in months, falls on the month which does not have the corresponding date, then the period shall expire on the last day of this month.
3. Period, calculated in days, shall expire on the last day of the established period.
4. When the last day of the period falls on holiday, the day of term expiry, calculated in years, months and days, shall be the next working day.
5. The procedural action for which the period was established, shall be performed up to twenty-four o'clock of the last day of the term. If complaint, documents or money were transported to the post, telegraph or transferred by other means of communication before twenty-four o'clock on the last day of the term, then the term is not considered to be missed.
6. If procedural action shall be performed directly in court, then the period expires when work on established norms and regulations is completed in the court.
7. Procedure for calculation of procedural periods, provided in this article, shall cover electronic documents submitted to the court.

Section 240. Original section/article: 124. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of procedure period omission 
1. Right for implementation of procedural action shall be compensated with the expiration of the procedural period, established by this Code or procedural action, assigned by the court.
2. Complaints and documents, submitted upon the expiry of the procedural periods, shall be returned by the court to the person to whom they were submitted without consideration, if it was not declared on restoration of missed procedural period.
3. The expiry of the procedural period does not exempt the person, participating in the case, from procedural obligation.

Section 241. Original section/article: 125. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension of procedural periods 
1. Course of all unexpired procedural periods shall be suspended with the suspension of the proceedings. Periods shall be suspended on the day when the court makes a decision on suspension of the proceedings on causes, stipulated in this Code.
2. Procedural period shall continue from the day when the court makes a decision on resumption of the proceedings.

Section 242. Original section/article: 126. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Prolongation and recovery of procedural periods 
1. Periods, appointed by the court, can be prolonged by the court.
2. Periods, established by this Code, may be restored by the court if they were missed by justifiable reasons.
3. The court shall be obliged to restore the missed period, specified in second part of this article, in order to appeal judicial acts, provision of petition or protests by the prosecutor in case of violation of the law by the court or judicial acts, restricting possibility of the participant on protection of their rights and legal interests (untimely sending of copy of the judicial act to a person, participating in the case; ignorance of proceedings language, if the judicial act was not translated into the language of the person, incorrect execution on legal succession), and also if there are other circumstances, prevented timely filing of a complaint, bringing a petition or protest to the prosecutor.
4. An application for the restoration of the missed procedural term shall be submitted to the court where the procedural action was to be performed no later than one month from the day when the applicant became aware of the violation of his/her rights or legitimate interests.
The participants of the case shall be immediately notified of the receipt of the application and have the right to submit a response to the court.
The court shall consider and resolve the application for the restoration of the missed procedural term within ten working days from the date of its receipt by the court.
The court shall have the right, at its discretion, to consider an application for the restoration of the missed procedural term without summoning the participants of the case, or to schedule a court session. Therewith, the absence of the participants of the case, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the application.
5. Claim for protection of rights shall be made together with filing of an application on restoration of the term, and document, confirming validity of causes for missing of the term, shall be submitted.
6. A private complaint, petition, protest of the prosecutor may be filed to the court decision to refuse in prolongation or restoration of missed procedural period.
7. Decision of the court on prolongation or restoration of the procedural period is not subject to appeal, revision upon the request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 243. Original section/article: 126. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 11. COURT NOTICES AND CALLS

Section 244. Original section/article: 127. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court notices and calls 
1. Persons, participating in the case, their representatives, and witnesses, experts, specialists and interpreters shall be informed about time and place of court session or separate procedural act, and are called to the court by summons.
2. The participants of the case, witnesses, experts, specialists and interpreters may be notified or summoned by sending a notice to an e-mail address or a mobile phone number, as well as using other electronic means of communication that ensure the recording of a notice or a call.
In the absence of information on the e-mail address or mobile phone number, or other electronic means of communication that ensure the recording of a notice or call, a court summons or other notice on paper shall be sent to the last known place of residence or location.
If a person does not live at the address submitted to the court, notification or call shall be sent to the place of his work.
Persons, participating in the case, shall be entitled to publish a message on time, date and place of proceedings in mass media in cases by which notified and called persons did not appear in the court.
If there is information about electronic means of communication, referred in subparagraphs 1) and 2) of the fourth part of this article, notifications shall be sent to representatives of the parties.
3. Notifications and calls shall be sent no later than the next day from the date of making decision on preparation of the case to proceedings, or from the date of legal proceedings, that notified or called person has sufficient time to appear in the court and to prepare for the case.
4. Appropriate notification of the party is notification, sent to the party:
1) to email specified by the party, participating in the case;
2) to email, specified in electronic services of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) to e-mail, specified in the contract, concluded between the parties within the one year and which is matter of the dispute;
4) on subscriber number of mobile communications, submitted to the court, upon receipt of a report, confirming the delivery;
5) using other electronic means of communication that ensure the recording of a notice or a call, unless it is proved that such a notice has not been received or has been received later;
6) on paper - according to the last known place of residence or location;
7) to the user's account on the digital government web portal by forwarding a short text message to the subscriber's mobile telephone number registered on the digital government web portal.
If a party fails to appear on the first notice sent via electronic means of communication specified in subparagraphs 1), 2) and 3) of this part, a repeated notice shall be sent using other electronic means of communication and delivery that ensure that the court notice or summons is recorded.
5. Excluded by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (put into operation upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
6. Forms of summons, stipulated in this article, are applied and towards subjects, mentioned in fifth part of

Section 245. Original section/article: 23. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the present Code, if other procedure was not established by international agreement, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 246. Original section/article: 127. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023).

Section 247. Original section/article: 128. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of summon or other notification, call 
1. Summon or other notification, call shall include:
1) a person being notified or called to the court (full name (if it is indicated in identity card) and place of residence or name of the legal entity and its location);
2) name and address of the court;
3) place and time of court appearance;
4) name of the case by which the notification or call of the addressee is made;
5) in what capacity the addressee is notified or called;
6) offer to persons, participating in the case, to present all available evidences in the case with the consequences of their failure to submit pursuant to the requirements of this Code;
7) rights and obligations, stipulated in

Section 248. Original section/article: 46. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
8) obligation of the person, who accepted summon or other notification, call due to the absence of the addressee, and to give it to the addressee;
9) consequences of failure to appear in the court of the person being notified or called and his obligation to inform the court about cause of failure to appear;
10) signature of person, who sent summon or other notification, call.
2. A message, sent by subscriber mobile number or e-mail shall include:
1) person being notified or called to the court (full name (if it is indicated in identity card) of person to whom it is addressed, or name of the legal entity);
2) name and address of the court;
3) place and time of court appearance;
4) brief name of the case, by which notification or call of the addressee is made;
5) in what capacity the addressee is notified or called;
6) full name of person, who sent a message.
Document, confirming message sending, shall be attached to the case file.
2-1. The person who transmitted the telephone message about the notification or call shall certify it with his/her signature and an indication of to whom and when it was transmitted.
The document confirming the sending of the telephone message shall be attached to the case file.
3. The parties, which received the notification, shall be entitled to study the claim and attached materials using official Internet resource of the court, except of cases, which are subject to consideration of closed judicial session.
Footnote.

Section 249. Original section/article: 128. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 29, 2020, № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 250. Original section/article: 129. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Delivery of summon or other notification 
1. Summon or other notification shall be delivered to email address or to subscriber mobile number or by mail or by the person, who is entrusted by the judge.
Time of their sending to e-mail or subscriber number of mobile communications shall be recorded in confirming report, and in case of delivery, it is marked on back of summon or copy of another notification, which shall be returned to the court.
2. The judge can issue, with the consent of the person, participating in the case, a summon or other legal notification for delivery to another person being notified or called by the case.
3. A person, who is entrusted to deliver summon or other notification, shall be obliged to return back of summon or copies of other notification to the court with the date of delivery and receipt of the addressee.
4. Summon or other notification shall be considered as delivered in case of meeting the requirements, specified in this chapter and unless the contrary is proved.
Footnote.

Section 251. Original section/article: 129. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication).

Section 252. Original section/article: 130. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Serving of court summons or other notification 
1. A court summons or other notice on paper addressed to a citizen shall be handed over to him/her personally against the signature on the spine of the summons or a copy of another notice on paper to be returned to the court.
A court summons or other notice on paper addressed to a legal entity shall be handed to its representative or the relevant person performing managerial functions, a security officer or another employee of the summoned, notified citizen, who sign on the spine of the summons or a copy of another notice on paper of receipt from indicating their position, surname and initials.
A court summons or other notice on paper shall be sent to a legal entity if all possibilities for sending electronic types of notice and summons have been exhausted.
A court summons or other notice on paper shall be considered delivered to a legal entity at its location, even if the legal entity is not at the specified address.
2. If the person delivering the summons does not find the person being notified or summoned in the case at his/her place of residence or work, the summons shall be handed to one of the adult family members living with him or her or another person with their consent, and in their absence - to an authorized person of the association of owners of the property of an apartment building or the entity managing the condominium facility or the service for the provision of housing and communal services, an authorized person of the local government body or the relevant executive body at the addressee's place of residence or the administration at his/her workplace. In these cases, the person accepting the summons shall indicate on the counterfoil his or her last name, first name, patronymic (if indicated in the identity document), as well as the relationship to the addressee or the position held. The person accepting the summons shall, at the first opportunity, without delay, hand it over to the addressee.
In these cases, the subpoena shall be deemed to have been properly delivered.
3. In the event of the temporary absence of the addressee, the person delivering the summons shall indicate on the counterfoil of the summons or other notice on paper where the addressee has gone and when his/her return is expected. This information shall be confirmed by one of the adult family members and other persons living with him or her, or certified by an authorized person of the association of owners of the property of an apartment building or the subject of management of the condominium object or the service for the provision of housing and communal services, an authorized person of the local government body or the relevant executive body at the addressee's place of residence or the administration at his/her workplace, as well as by the person who delivered the court summons or notice on paper.
Footnote.

Section 253. Original section/article: 130. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication); № 284-VІ dated 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 254. Original section/article: 131. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of the addressee refusal from acceptance of summon or other notification 
1. If the addressee refuses to accept a summons or other notice on paper, the person delivering it shall make a corresponding note on the summons or other notice, which shall be returned to the court, and shall also have the right to draw up a report on this. The note on the addressee's refusal to receive a summons or other notice shall be certified by an authorized person of the association of owners of the property of an apartment building or the subject of management of the condominium object or the service for the provision of housing and maintenance and public utilities, an authorized person of the local government body or the relevant executive body at the addressee's place of residence, or the administration at his/her workplace.
2. The addressee's refusal to accept a court summons or other notice on paper shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the case or the performance of certain procedural actions, and the person shall be considered to have been duly notified.
Footnote.

Section 255. Original section/article: 131. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be valid upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its official publication); № 284-VІ dated 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 256. Original section/article: 132. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Change of full name (if it is indicated in identity card), change of address, subscriber number of mobile communication and email during case proceedings 
Persons, participated in the case, and their representatives shall be obliged to inform the court in case of change of full name (if it is indicated in identity card), change of address, subscriber number of mobile communications, e-mail address during case proceedings. If such message is absent, the summon or other notification, the call shall be sent to the last known data and shall be considered as delivered, even if the addressee does not live at this address, does not use this mobile subscriber number or email address. Such notification is appropriate.

Section 257. Original section/article: 133. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unknown location of defendant and (or) child and their detection 
1. If the actual location of the defendant is unknown, the court shall begin consideration of the case upon receipt by the court of a summons or other notice, summons with an inscription certifying their receipt by an authorized person of the association of owners of the property of an apartment building or the subject of management of the condominium object or the service for the provision of housing and communal services, an authorized person of the local government body or the relevant executive body at the last known place of residence of the addressee or the administration at his/her last known workplace. Such notification is appropriate.
If the place of stay of the defendant and (or) the child is unknown, upon the request for the return of a child illegally displaced to the Republic of Kazakhstan or held in the Republic of Kazakhstan, or for the exercise of access rights in relation to such a child on the basis of an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, the judge must issue a ruling on declaring the defendant and / or the child as wanted.
2. If location of the defendant on cases, filed in the interests of the state and on recovery of alimony, compensation for harm, caused by damage to the health or death of the family provider is unknown, the court shall be obliged to announce detection of the defendant by means of the authorized bodies. Announcement of defendant detection by the court is not an obstacle for case consideration. 
3. Having received a copy of the court decision, the defendant shall be entitled to file a petition on restoration of missed procedural period for filing of an appeal pursuant to procedure, established in

Section 258. Original section/article: 126. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, and to appeal court decision.
4. Collection of expenses on detection of defendant and (or) a child is performed upon the request of the authorized body by means of court order delivery.
Footnote.

Section 259. Original section/article: 133. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 284-VІ dated 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 11-1. Features of electronic litigation
Footnote. The Code is supplemented by Chapter 11-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 260. Original section/article: 133-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Format of civil legal proceeding 
1. Civil legal proceeding shall be conducted in paper or electronic format, depending on the method of recourse to the court chosen by the plaintiff.
2. The court, with due consideration to the opinion of the parties and technical possibilities of conducting the process, can change the format of proceeding, shall render a reasoned ruling whereof.
3. Upon conducting proceeding in electronic format, an electronic civil case shall be formed. 
In this case, the original of the judicial act shall be the electronic judicial act posted in the automated digital court system.
4. Upon changing the format of the proceeding, the case files shall be converted into the appropriate format and certified by the judge.

Section 261. Original section/article: 133-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Electronic documents 
1. Procedural acts and actions of the court, the persons participating in the case may be drawn up in the form of an electronic document certified by an electronic digital signature. These documents shall be equivalent to documents in writing, with the exception of cases when the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not allow use of an electronic document.
1-1. Draft procedural documents of the court may be drawn up using the automated digital court system.
2. The competent state authority in charge for judicial administration shall establish technical requirements for an electronic document and the procedure for its circulation in the automated digital court system considering the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 262. Original section/article: 133-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall come into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 263. Original section/article: 133-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation in judicial session by using technical means of communication 
1. Persons participating in a case, their representatives, as well as witnesses, experts, specialists, and interpreters may participate in a court hearing by using technical means of communication at their request or at the court's initiative.
2. The technical means of communication used for participation in the judicial session must ensure the possibility for establishing the identity of the person participating in the case by judge presiding, as well as checking the representative’s powers.
In the absence of such a technical possibility, the realization of the right for participation in the judicial session shall be ensured by the court at the place of residence of the person participating in the case.
3. In the event to ensure participation of military, persons in medical institutions, social protection institutions, as well as in places of detention or imprisonment, technical means of communication of these institutions shall be used, the establishment of identity, receiving a subscription for clarification rights and obligations to them by the court considering the case, and warning of responsibility for their violation shall be carried out with the assistance of the administration of these institutions. 
Certified copies of documents proving the identity of the person participating in judicial session, as well as his subscriptions, no later than the next working day after receipt, shall be sent to the court considering the case for inclusion in the case file.
4. The procedure for using technical means of communication to ensure participation in court hearings and the requirements for such means shall be established by the authorised public authority responsible for court administration, with due regard to the requirements of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 264. Original section/article: 133-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 265. Original section/article: 133-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Electronic protocol 
1. An audio and video recording of a trial shall be recognized as an electronic protocol.
2. The technical requirements for the electronic protocol, ensuring completeness, structuring and high-quality reproduction, are determined by the authorized state body in the field of judicial administration, taking into account the requirements of this Code.
Footnote. Chapter 11-1 is supplemented by

Section 266. Original section/article: 133-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 267. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
PROCEEDINGS IN THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE SUBSECTION 1. WRIT PROCEEDINGS
Footnote. The title of subsection 1 - as reworded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Chapter 12. WRIT PROCEEDINGS
Footnote. Throughout Chapter 12:
the word "recoverer" has been replaced by the word "plaintiff";
the word "debtor" has been replaced by the word "defendant" under Law № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 268. Original section/article: 134. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Debt enforcement based on court order 
1. A court order shall be a judicial act, which shall be issued in electronic form upon the claimant's application for the recovery of money or the recovery of movable property from the debtor on indisputable claims, as well as upon the claimant's application for the execution of agreements concluded by way of pre-trial settlement of the dispute in cases established by law or stipulated by the agreement, without summoning the debtor and the claimant to hear their explanations and without trial.
2. Court order is as enforcement document. Levy pursuant to court order shall be implemented in order, established for court judgements implementation.
Footnote.

Section 269. Original section/article: 134. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 270. Original section/article: 135. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Requirements pursuant to which court order is delivered 
Court order shall be delivered pursuant to the requirements:
1) on recovery of debt for customs payments, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, penalties, interest from individuals;
2) Excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be effective on 01.08.2022). 
3) on execution of agreements for settlement of disputes (conflicts) in the order of mediation, concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by the Law or provided by the contract;
4) on recovery of alimony for minor children, not related to the establishment of paternity (maternity) or necessity third parties proceedings;
5) Excluded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be enacted ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
6) Excluded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
7) on reimbursement of expenses on search of debtor, defendant and (or) child, declared by authorized bodies;
8) on execution of agreements on disputes related to business, investment activities, concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by the Law or provided by the contract;
9) on execution of agreements on insurance disputes and disputes arising from bank loan agreements concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by the Law or provided by the contract;
10) on execution of agreements on disputes for protection of consumer's rights, concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by the Law or provided by the contract;
11) on execution of agreements on disputes for protection of intellectual property rights, concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by the Law or provided by the contract;
12) on collection of single monetary remuneration, stipulated in military service contract in case early termination of the contract upon the initiative of the service member;
13) on collection of amounts, spent on training of students of training establishments, who suspended their training or service voluntarily, and those, who were dismissed or exmatriculated for causes as provided by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan before the expiry of contract time;
14) on collection of public grants from persons, who suspended their education or did not return to the Republic of Kazakhstan having graduated educational institution in the foreign state or violated contractual obligation on grant return;
15) on collection of public grants, relocation grants, benefits from young professionals, who were sent to rural areas in case of non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of their contractual obligations;
16) on return of paid single monetary payment due to adoption of orphan child and (or) a child without parental care to the budget, in case of adoption termination;
17) on collection of rental payments due to failure to pay on due date, established by rental agreement declared by the state authority;
18) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
19) on the execution of agreements on disputes in the field of marital and family relations concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement in cases established by law or provided for by the contract;
20) on the execution of agreements on disputes on publication of a refutation of information discrediting the honor, dignity or business reputation of a citizen and business reputation of a legal entity, or a response in the media; 
21) on the execution of other agreements concluded in the order of pre-trial settlement of disputes in cases established by law or stipulated by the contract.
Footnote.

Section 271. Original section/article: 135. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (see

Section 272. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for the enactment procedure).

Section 273. Original section/article: 136. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Form and content of motion judgement 
1. Motion for judgement shall be submitted to the court pursuant to general rules of territorial jurisdiction, established by chapter 3 of this Code.
2. Application shall be submitted in writing or in form of electronic document. Following information shall be stated in the application:
1) name of the court to which application is submitted;
2) name of the plaintiff, his birth date, place of residence or location, individual identification number, details of the legal entity, business identification number;
3) name of the debtor, his birth date, place of residence or location, individual identification number (if it is known to the applicant), details of the legal entity, business identification number;
4) claim of execution creditor and circumstances on which it is based;
5) list of attached documents, confirming asserted claim.
3. Cost of property shall be stated in the application in case of movable property request, confirmed by the relevant documents.
4. The application shall be signed by execution creditor or his representative if he is authorized to sign or file the application. The application, filed by the representative, shall be accompanied by the power of attorney, certifying his authority.
Filing the application in form of electronic document, it shall be certified by digital signature of execution creditor or his representative. Electronic copies of documents, referred in this article, shall be attached to the application, filed in form of electronic document.
5. Submitting the requirements, listed in

Section 274. Original section/article: 135. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, without their indication for writ or action proceedings, these requirements are considered pursuant to rules of this chapter.

Section 275. Original section/article: 137. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
State duty 
1. Application for court order delivery shall be paid by the state duty in the amount established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Taxes and other Obligatory Payments to the budget” (Tax Code).
2. If application is refused, state duty, paid by execution creditor, shall be returned.
3. If court order is canceled, state duty, paid by execution creditor, shall not be returned. When a claim is filed by the execution creditor against the debtor pursuant to procedure of claim proceedings, it is accounted towards payable state duty.

Section 276. Original section/article: 138. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Causes in rejection of acceptance and return of application on court order delivery 
1. The judge shall refuse to accept or return the application on court order delivery on causes, provided for in articles 151, 152 of this Code.
Moreover, the judge shall return the application in cases if:
1) asserted claim is not provided for in

Section 277. Original section/article: 135. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
2) place of residence or location of the debtor is outside the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) documents, confirming asserted claim, were not submitted;
4) there is a dispute on the right, which shall be considered in order of claim proceedings;
5) form and content of the application do not meet the requirements of

Section 278. Original section/article: 136. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
6) the application is not paid by the state duty.
2. The judge shall make a decision on refusal in acceptance or return of the application within three working days from the date of application submission to the court.
3. Return of the application does not prevent reapplication on delivery of court order or filing of action to the same defendant, on the same subject and by the same causes, if committed violation is eliminated.
4. The judge decision on refusal on acceptance or return of the application can be appealed in the Court of Appeal, which decision is final.

Section 279. Original section/article: 139. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure and term of court decision delivery 
Court order shall be delivered by the judge on declared unimpeachable requirement within three working days from the date of application submission to the court.

Section 280. Original section/article: 140. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of court order 
1. Following shall be stated in court order:
1) number of proceeding and date of court order delivery;
2) name of court, full name of judge, delivered an order;
3) full name (if it is stated in identity card), birth date of execution creditor, his place of residence and location, individual identification number or, if execution creditor is legal entity, its name, actual location, bank details, business identification number;
4) full name (if it is stated in identity card), date of birth of the debtor, his place of residence or location, information about his place of work and bank details of the legal entity where the debtor works (if indicated in the application for court order), individual identification number (if available) or, if the debtor is legal entity, its name, location, bank details, business identification number, and information about subscriber numbers of local and/or mobile communication, e-mail (if any, and available);
5) law according to which the requirement was satisfied;
6) amount of monetary funds, which are subject to recovery, or designation of required movable property, with its cost;
7) amount of penalty, if its recovery is statutory or contractual, and period of time for which it is charged;
8) amount of state duty to be recovered from the debtor in favor of execution creditor or to the appropriate budget;
9) term and procedure for filing of an application on objection to declared requirements.
2. Name and date of birth of each child, for whom alimony payments were adjudged, amount of payments, levied monthly from the debtor and term of their levy shall be stated in court order on alimony recovery for minor children, besides information, provided for subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 4), 5) and 8) of first part of this article.
3. Court order is signed by the judge.

Section 281. Original section/article: 141. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sending a copy of the court order to the debtor. The objections against order 
1. The court order shall be served or sent to the debtor using the means of communication ensuring the recording of its receipt no later than the day after its issuance.
2. The debtor shall have the right to send to the court the copy of the court order objections to the stated request within ten business days after of received receptor from the day when it became aware of its issuance.
3. The objections of the debtor shall be supported by appropriate evidence about the existence of the subject matter of the dispute referred to in the application for issuing a court order. Electronic copies of documents shall be attached to the objections filed in the form of an electronic document.
4. The objections shall be signed by the person indicated in the part two of this Article or the representative. When filing objections in electronic format document, they shall be certified by a digital signature of the debtor or the representative. The objection submitted by the representative shall be accompanied by a power of attorney certifying the authority.
5. The objections that do not meet the requirements of the part three and four of this Article shall be returned by a court ruling.
6. A period missed for reasonable excuse for filing the objection shall be reinstated by the court that issued the court order on the grounds and in the procedure provided in the

Section 282. Original section/article: 142. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Reversal of the court order 
1. The judge shall cancel the court order if the objection is received from the debtor against a stated request or if there is another person’s application, whose rights and obligations are affected by the court order, about court order non-conformity to the requirements of the law.
2. The judge shall decide on the reversal of the court order no later than in three business days after of receipt of the objection or application. The ruling clarifies that the claim filed by the claimant shall be filed in accordance with the procedure for the suit proceedings. The copies of the ruling on cancellation of the court order shall be sent to the claimant and the debtor no later than the next day after its delivery.
The court ruling on the cancellation of the court order is not subject to appeal or revision upon request of the prosecutor.
The private petition is filed and prosecutor’s petition is brought for decision the by court to refuse to cancel the court order and prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 283. Original section/article: 142. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 284. Original section/article: 143. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The issuance of the court order to a claimant and sending it for the execution 
1. If an objection is not received from the debtor within the prescribed period, the court order shall be issued to the claimant for presentation for implementation or, upon his/her application, shall be sent by the court for implementation to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers by territoriality.
2. At the request of the claimant, as well as on the requirements subject to immediate execution in accordance with

Section 285. Original section/article: 243. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the court order shall be sent for implementation directly by the court.
3. To collect the state duty from the debtor to the income of the relevant budget, a separate copy of the court order shall be sent directly by the court to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers according territoriality.
Footnote.

Section 286. Original section/article: 143. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 13. SIMPLIFIED (WRITTEN) PROCEEDING
Footnote. Chapter 13 is excluded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
SUB-

Section 287. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
SUIT PROCEEDING Chapter 14. FILING OF SUIT

Section 288. Original section/article: 148. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The form and content of statement of claim 
1. The statement of claim is filed to the court of the first instance in writing or in electronic format.
2. The statement of claim shall include:
1) the name of the court where the statement of claim is filed;
2) the surname, first name and patronymics (if it is indicated in the identity document) of the plaintiff, the date of birth, the place of residence, individual identification number, if the plaintiff is a legal entity the full name, location, business identification number and Bank details; the name of the representative and the address if the application is submitted by the representative. The application shall include the information about the telephone line number of the cellular communication and the electronic address of the plaintiff and the representative, if any;
3) the surname, first name and patronymics (if it is indicated in the identity document) of the defendant, the place of residence, individual identification number (if it's known to the plaintiff), if the defendant is a legal entity the full name, location, Bank details (if they are known to the plaintiff) and business identification number (if it is known to the plaintiff). The application shall include information about the telephone line number of the cellular communication and the electronic address of the plaintiff and the representative, if they are known to the plaintiff;
4) the essence of the violation or the threat of violation of the rights and freedoms of a citizen or the legitimate interests of the plaintiff and the plaintiff’s demands;
5) the circumstances when the plaintiff bases his claims, as well as the content of the evidence supporting these circumstances;
6) information on compliance with the pre-trial procedure for appealing to the defendant, if this is established by the law or provided by the contract;
6-1) information on the actions taken by the party (parties) aimed at conciliation if such actions were taken;
7) the amount of the claim, if the claim is subjected to the assessment, as well as calculation of collected or disputed amounts of money;
8) the list of documents attached to the statement of claim.
In addition to the requirements specified in subparagraphs 1) – 8) of this part, the claim submitted and signed by the representative must contain a reference to the rule of law on which the requirements are based.
3. A claim brought by a prosecutor in the state or public interest must contain a justification of what the state or public interest is, which legitimate interests have been violated, as well as a reference to the law that is subject to application. In the case of a prosecutor's appeal in the interests of an individual or legal entity, the claim must contain a justification for the reasons for the impossibility of filing a claim by the individual or legal entity itself. The claim must be accompanied by a document confirming the consent of an individual or legal entity or its legal representative to the prosecutor's appeal to the court, except in cases of filing a claim in the interests of a minor or incapacitated person.
4. The statement of claim shall be signed by the plaintiff or his representative, if he is authorized to sign the statement of claim. It is necessary to be sure in the electronic digital signature of the plaintiff or the representative when filing a claim in the form of an electronic document.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 289. Original section/article: 148. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 290. Original section/article: 149. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The documents attached to the statement of claim petition 
1. Documents attached to the state of case petition are:
1) the copies of the state of case petition and the documents attached thereto by the number of defendants and the third parties;
2) a document confirming the payment of the state fee, or a request for a delay in the payment of the state fee on the grounds provided for by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code);
3) the power of attorney or other document certifying the powers of the representative;
4) the documents confirming the circumstances where the plaintiff bases his claims;
5) the documents confirming compliance with the pre-trial procedure for settling a dispute, if this procedure is established by the law or provided by the contract;
5-1) documents confirming the commission by the party (parties) of actions aimed at conciliation if such actions were committed;
6) the procedural request of the plaintiff for taking the evidence, if the evidence is with the defendant or the third party;
7) the copies of the charter, the certificate or the certificate of state registration (re-registration), if the claim is filed by a legal person.
1-1. The statement of claim filed in the manner prescribed by part 1-2 of

Section 291. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be accompanied by:
1) the copies of the investment contract concluded between the investor and the authorized state body;
2) documents confirming the investment activity of the investor.
2. The statement of the case submitted in the form of an electronic document shall be attached in electronic form to the copies of the documents referred to in the subparagraphs 2) - 7) of the first part of this Article.
Footnote.

Section 292. Original section/article: 149. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 49-VI dated 27.02.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 12.12.2023 № 46-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024).

Section 293. Original section/article: 150. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acceptance of the lawsuit
Footnote. The title of

Section 294. Original section/article: 150. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as reworded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Within five business days of receipt of the lawsuit, the judge shall decide whether to accept it in court proceedings.
In the case of conciliation procedures, a lawsuit shall be accepted within ten working days from the date of its receipt.
If a pretrial protocol is drawn up in compliance with paragraphs one and two of

Section 295. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, a lawsuit shall be accepted within fifteen working days from the date of its receipt.
A judge shall conduct conciliation procedures when accepting a lawsuit under the rules provided for in Chapter 17 of this Code.
2. The judge shall make a decision on initiating a civil case indicating the language of the proceedings accepting the statement of the case in the proceedings of the court of the first instance. 
Footnote.

Section 296. Original section/article: 150. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall become effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 297. Original section/article: 151. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The refusal to accept the statement of the case 
1. The judge shall refuse to accept the statement of the case if:
1) the statement is not subjected to consideration and permission in civil proceedings;
2) there is a court decision that has entered into legal force or a court decision to discontinue the proceedings on the grounds provided in this Code, rendered in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds;
3) there is a decision of the arbitrage made on the dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds and this has become known to the court;
4) there is an executive inscription made on the same subject and for the same reasons between the same parties.
2. The judge shall make a ruling within five business days after of its receipt on refusal to accept the statement of the case that shall be served or sent to the declarant with all documents attached to the claim.
3. The refusal to accept the statement of the case prevents the claimant from re-applying to the court with the same defendant, on the same subject and on the same grounds.
4. The court’s decision on the refusal to accept the statement of the case indicates that the claimant shall apply to if the case is not subjected to consideration and resolution in civil proceedings.
5. A statement of the case shall be lodged with a decision by the prosecutor on the ruling to refuse to accept the statement of the case.
Footnote.

Section 298. Original section/article: 151. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 299. Original section/article: 152. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The return of the statement of the case 
1. The judge returns the statement of the case if:
1) the plaintiff shall not complied with the procedure for the pre-trial settlement of the dispute or out-of-court settlement of the dispute established by the Law for this category of cases or stipulated by the parties' agreement and the possibility of applying this procedure has not been lost;
2) the case is not in the jurisdiction of the court;
3) the statement of the case does not meet the requirements of the

Section 300. Original section/article: 148. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, the subparagraphs 1), 2), 3) and 5) of the part one, the part 1-1 of the

Section 301. Original section/article: 149. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and the impossibility of eliminating deficiencies at the stage of preparing a case for the court proceedings establishment;
4) the application is filed by an incompetent person;
5) the application is signed by a person who does not have the authority to sign it or to present it;
6) in the proceedings of the same or another court or arbitration there is a case in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds;
7) the parties have concluded an agreement in accordance with the law on the transfer of this dispute to the resolution of the arbitration, unless otherwise provided by the law;
8) the body authorized to manage the communal property has applied to the court for recognition of the right of communal ownership of the immovable property before the expiration of one year from the date of acceptance of this property by the authority registering the right to immovable property, except for the case specified in the paragraph 3 of the

Section 302. Original section/article: 242. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9) the plaintiff announced the return of the statement of the case filed by him.
2. The judge shall make a decision on the return of the statement of the case that indicates which court the person shall apply to if the case is not in the jurisdiction of the court or how to eliminate the circumstances preventing the initiation of the civil case. The ruling shall be made within five business days after of the receipt of the statement of the case to the court and delivered or sent to the plaintiff with all attached documents.
3. The re-admittance of the statement of the case shall not prevent the plaintiff from re-applying to the court with the same defendant, on the same subject and on the same grounds if the violation is eliminated.
4. The decision of the court on the re-admittance of the statement of the case shall be filed; the private statement of the case, the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, whose decision is final.
Footnote.

Section 303. Original section/article: 152. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication);

Section 304. Original section/article: 153. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The counter-claiming 
1. The defendant shall have the right to submit a counter-claim to the plaintiff for joint consideration with the initial claim before the completion of the preparation of the case for the judicial examination. The presentation, return, refusal to accept the counter-claim shall be made according to the rules provided by the Articles 148, 151 and 152 of this Code.
2. The counter-claim shall be accepted during the court proceedings if the defendant did not participate at the stage of preparing the case for the court proceedings due to inadequate notification of the time and place of the preparation of the case for the judicial examination.

Section 305. Original section/article: 154. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The counter-claim allowance conditions 
The judge shall accept the counter-claim if: 
1) the counter-claim is directed to the offsetting of the initial claim; 
2) the satisfaction of the counter-claim excludes completely or in the part of the satisfaction of the initial claim; 
3) there is a mutual link between the counter-claims and the initial claims and their joint consideration lead to a faster and more correct settlement of disputes.
Chapter 15. SECURITY OF A CLAIM

Section 306. Original section/article: 155. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The grounds for securing of a claim 
1. Upon request of the parties to the arbitral proceedings a court may take measures to secure the claim in any state of the case if non-taking such measures might make it difficult or impossible to enforce the decision of the court.
The parties shall attach to the application for securing the claim a document confirming the filing of the claim to the arbitration to the arbitration proceedings.
2. It is not allowed to take measures to secure the claim in relation to the financial organization, as well as an organization that is a part of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and is not a financial organization, when they carry out restructuring in cases provided by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It shall be prohibited to take measures to secure a claim regarding the suspension of the contested legal act adopted by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations or the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan within its competence, to suspend actions and (or) deprive of licenses and (or) annexes to them for carrying out activities in the financial market, conducting conservation of financial organizations, its written instructions, as well as the contested legal act adopted by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations or the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan within its competence, on the application of supervisory response measures (except for recommendatory supervisory response measures), on classifying a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a bank, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan with an unstable financial position, creating a threat to the interests of its depositors and creditors and (or) a threat to the stability of the financial system, on classifying a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as insolvent banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and applying a settlement measure to them in accordance with the Law Republic of Kazakhstan "On Banks and Banking Activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan".
It is not allowed to take measures to secure the claim in the form of suspension of the contested legal act of the state revenue bodies that is the basis for conducting tax audits.
It is not allowed to take measures to secure a claim in respect of set-off of claims and (or) liquidation netting on a transaction (transactions) under the general financial agreement.
Footnote.

Section 307. Original section/article: 155. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); № 262-VI dated 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced since 01.01.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (shall come into effect from 16.12.2020); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 308. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Measures for securing the claim 
1. Measures for securing the claim shall be:
1) imposition of arrest on property owned by the defendant and held by him/her or other citizens (except for imposition of arrest on money on the correspondent account of a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and property that is the subject of repo transactions concluded in trading systems of the organizers of trading using the open trading method, or contributions to guarantee or reserve funds of a clearing organization (central counterparty), margin contributions that are collateral for transactions concluded in the trading systems of trading organizers using the open trading method and (or) with the participation of a central counterparty, as well as on money held in bank accounts, to which the amounts of wages are received).
Seizure of mandatory pension contributions, mandatory professional pension contributions (penalties thereon), pension assets and pension savings, lump-sum pension payments from a single accumulative pension fund for the purpose of improving housing conditions and (or) paying for treatment, target assets, payments of target savings from a single accumulative pension fund for the purpose of improving housing conditions and (or) paying for education, payments of savings from an educational savings deposit or insurance payments under an educational savings insurance agreement for improving housing conditions, benefits and social payments paid from the state budget and (or) the State Social Insurance Fund, financial assistance provided in accordance with subparagraph 1) of paragraph 4 of

Section 309. Original section/article: 112. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Social Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, located in bank accounts and (or) in electronic wallets of electronic money, housing payments, on money located in bank accounts intended for crediting compensation for material damage and providing the necessary assistance from the state budget and (or) from charitable organizations to individuals, victims of a natural or man-made emergency, for money in a bank account in a housing construction savings bank with the status of a national development institution intended for the transfer of payments and subsidies for the purpose of paying for rented housing in a private housing stock, for money in bank accounts in housing construction savings banks in the form of housing construction savings accumulated through the use of housing payments, lump-sum pension payments from a single accumulative pension fund for the purpose of improving housing conditions and (or) paying for treatment, in the form of payments of targeted savings from a single accumulative pension fund for the purpose of improving housing conditions and (or) paying for education, for money in bank accounts in housing construction savings banks in the form of housing construction savings that are the subject of collateral for issued bank loans, in the form of payments of savings from an educational savings deposit or insurance payments under an educational savings insurance contract for improving housing conditions, for money in bank accounts in banks the second level in the form of savings for major repairs of the common property of the condominium facility, with the exception of recoveries based on court decisions on cases of failure to fulfill obligations under contracts concluded for the purpose of carrying out major repairs of the common property of the condominium facility, on money deposited on the terms of a notary deposit, located in bank accounts under an educational savings deposit agreement concluded in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the State Educational Savings System", assets of the Social Health Insurance Fund, on money located in the current account of a private bailiff intended for storing the collected amounts in favor of creditors, on money located in bank accounts intended for recording the money of clients of the investment portfolio manager, for unfulfilled obligations of this investment portfolio manager, on money located in bank accounts intended for recording the money of clients of the person performing the functions of a nominee holder, for unfulfilled obligations of this person performing the functions of a nominee holder, on money located in bank accounts for the implementation of clearing activities for transactions with financial instruments, as well as on money in the bank account of a single operator in the sphere of public procurement, intended for the deposit of money by potential suppliers or suppliers as security measures within the framework of participation in public procurement in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Procurement", on money in the current account of the financial manager for crediting money in the bankruptcy procedure, and on money in the bank accounts of a citizen in respect of whom a case has been initiated on the application of the procedure or the procedure has been applied in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Restoration of Solvency and Bankruptcy of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan", shall be prohibited.
Seizure of money in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan at a correspondent account of a foreign state shall be allowed for claims for damages, caused by violation of jurisdictional immunity of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its property by a foreign state.
In the ruling on securing a claim in the form of seizure of money belonging to the defendant and located in a bank, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the amount of money on which the seizure is imposed shall be indicated. The amount of money to be seized shall be determined by the court based on the value of the claim;
2) the prohibition to the defendant to perform certain actions;
3) prohibiting to other persons to transfer property to the defendant or perform other obligations in relation to him/her, as provided by the law or contract;
4) suspension of the sale of property in the event of a claim for the release of property from seizure;
5) suspension of the contested legal act of a state body, local government body (with the exception of a legal act adopted by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations or the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan within its competence, to suspend actions and (or) deprivation of licenses and (or) annexes to them to carry out activities in the financial market, conservation of financial organizations, its written instructions, as well as a legal act adopted by the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations or the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in within its competence, on the application of supervisory response measures (except for advisory supervisory response measures), on classifying a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a bank, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan with unstable financial provision that poses a threat to the interests of its depositors and creditors and (or) a threat to the stability of the financial system, on classifying a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as insolvent banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and applying to them a settlement measure in accordance with Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Banks and Banking Activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan");
6) suspension of recovery upon an enforcement document contested by a debtor in the court proceedings
7) suspension of bidding for out-of-court sale of the item under the loan;
8)suspension of the disputed acts and actions of the judicial executor connected with the address of collecting on the property made in the enforcement proceeding.
2. If necessary, the court may take other measures to secure the claim, meeting the goals, set in the

Section 310. Original section/article: 158. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. The Court may take several measures to secure the claim. In case of violation of prohibitions, specified in subparagraphs 2) and 3) of part 1 of this Article, the offenders are brought to administrative responsibility. Besides, the plaintiff shall have right to bring a claim on compensation of losses, caused by non-enforcement of the ruling on security of the claim.
3. Measures for security of the claim shall be commensurate to the requested requirement.
Footnote.

Section 311. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 12-VІ dated July 26, 2016 (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication); № 114-VI dated December 12, 2017 (shall be enforced from January 1, 2018); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (the order of enforcement see

Section 312. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
); № 262-VI dated 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced since 01.01.2020); № 284-VІ dated 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated December 30, 2020, № 397-VI (shall come into effect six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (the order of entry into force, see

Section 313. Original section/article: 2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
); dated 15.11.2021 № 72-VII (shall come into effect from 01.01.2022); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 177-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.11.2023 № 40-VIII (effective from 01.01.2024); dated 16.05.2024 № 82-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 22.11.2024 № 138-VIII (effective six months after the date of its first official publication); № 153-VIII of 10.01.2025 (shall enter into force sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2025 № 204-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2025 № 205-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 314. Original section/article: 157. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of application on security of a claim 
1. The application on the injunctive relief shall be reviewed and delivered by a judge on the day of the ruling of the institution of the civil case, if it was attached to the petition or indicated in the petition. In other cases, the application for the security of the claim shall be resolved by the judge on the day of his receipt in the court.
2. The application on security of a claim shall be considered by the judge on the day of its receipt by the court without notice to the defendant and other persons participating in the case of arbitrary and adjudicatory proceedings. Having considered the application on security of a claim, the judge makes the decision.
The judge shall make a decision on the security of a claim with the indication of the measure for security of a claim provided in the

Section 315. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code or on refuse to satisfy the application based on the results of consideration of the application.

Section 316. Original section/article: 158. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Enforcement of the decision on security of a claim 
1. The determination on the security of a claim shall be sent by the court or handed to the person who filed the procedural request for taking the measures for securing of a claim for immediate submission:
1) to the relevant body of justice or to the regional chamber of private bailiffs by territoriality to seize the debtor's property in the manner prescribed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Enforcement Proceedings and the Status of Bailiffs", in the absence of information on the property;
2) to the relevant body of justice or to the regional chamber of private bailiffs by territoriality to suspend enforcement proceedings in the cases provided for in subparagraphs 6), 8) of the first part of

Section 317. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
3) to the defendant in the case provided by the subparagraph 2) of the first part of the

Section 318. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
4) to the state or local authority in the case provided in the subparagraph 5) of the first part of the

Section 319. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
5) to the security holder in the case provided by the subparagraph 7) of the first part of the

Section 320. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
6) to the body of justice or the authorized body for the sale of property restricted in the disposal or to the regional chamber of private enforcement officers in the case provided for by subparagraph 4) of the first part of

Section 321. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
7) to the debtor of the defendant in the case provided by the subparagraph 3) of the first part of the

Section 322. Original section/article: 156. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
8) to the registering authority to impose a charge on the disputed property;
9) to banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and organizations engaged in certain types of banking operations, to seize money belonging to the defendant and located in bank accounts, in the case when account numbers and a specific bank, branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic are known Kazakhstan.
2. In the absence of information on the property to which interim measures have been applied, the court ruling shall be sent for implementation to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers by territoriality.
The authorities and persons to whom the determination has been sent shall be obliged to inform the court within five business days of the execution of the court’s decision to secure the claim. Failure to fulfill this obligation entails the occurrence of liability provided by the law.
3. The writ on interim measures shall not be written out.
Footnote.

Section 323. Original section/article: 158. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (shall come into effect from 16.12.2020).

Section 324. Original section/article: 159. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Replacement of one of security of a claim by another one 
1. Upon request of the person participating in the case, Replacement of one of security of a claim by another one.
2. The participants of the case shall be immediately notified of the receipt of the application and have the right to submit a response to the court.
The court shall consider and resolve an application for replacing the measure of securing a claim within five working days from the date of its receipt by the court.
The court shall have the right to consider an application for replacing the measure of securing a claim without summoning the participants of the case or to appoint a court session. Therewith, the absence of the participants of the case, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the application.
3. The judge makes a ruling on replacement of one of security of a claim by another one.
In case of a refusal to satisfy the application, the court shall indicate the motives why it is impossible to replace the previously selected measure for securing of a claim in the ruling.
4. The defendant has the right, instead of the measures taken by the court to secure the claim, to deposit an amount equal to the price of the claim to the deposit of the territorial subdivision of the authorized state body in the field of judicial administration.
Footnote.

Section 325. Original section/article: 159. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 326. Original section/article: 160. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cancellation of security of a claim 
1. Security of a claim may be canceled by the same court at the parties’ request or on its own initiative. 
Persons participating in the case shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing, but their absence shall not hamper consideration of the case on cancellation of security of the claim business days.
2. In case of dismissal of the case, the measures taken to secure the claim are kept until the decision ’s entry into legal force. However, the court may simultaneously with the decision or after its consideration, issue a ruling on cancellation of security of the claim. If the claim is satisfied, the taken measures keep their effect until the court decision is performed an enforcement order.
2-1. In cases of termination of proceedings on the case, leaving the statement of claim without consideration, as well as the return of the statement of claim, the measures taken to secure the claim shall remain in effect until the court ruling enters into legal force.
3. Specialized financial court considering the case on restructuring of a financial institution or organization, a member of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and not being a financial organization, in case of making a decision on restructuring of a financial institution or organization, a member of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and not being a financial organization, shall be obliged to cancel the statement of the claim, adopted by the courts before the decision on restructuring of a financial organization or an organization, being a part of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and not a financial institution, and (or) its property, is issued.
Footnote.

Section 327. Original section/article: 160. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 328. Original section/article: 161. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Appeal, prosecutor’s petition on rulings related to securing of a claim 
Footnote. The title of the

Section 329. Original section/article: 161. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan is in edition № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. A private petition and a protest can be brought to all rulings concerning the issues of securing of statement of claim.
2. If a decision on security of claim was made without notice of the complainant, the period for filing a petition shall be calculated from the day when he/she shall have learnt about the decision.
3. Filing of private petitions against a ruling on security of a claim shall not suspend fulfillment of the ruling.
4. Submission of a private petition or a protest against the ruling on cancellation of security of a claim or replacement of one of security of the claim by another one, suspends enforcement of the ruling.
5. The material separated from the case concerning the adopted ruling shall be sent with a private petition to the court of appeal.
Footnote. The

Section 330. Original section/article: 161. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 331. Original section/article: 162. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compensation of damages to a defendant caused by security of a claim 
1. The court admitting security of the claim, may require from the plaintiff to provide security of possible damages to the defendant. The defendant, after the decision on denial of the case enters into legal force, shall have right to bring a claim on compensation of damages, caused by measures for security of a claim, adopted at the request of the plaintiff Security of possible damages is made by deposit of the amount specified in the court’s ruling to the authorized body. 
2. The defendant, after the decision on denial of the case enters into legal force, shall have right to bring a claim on compensation of damages, caused by measures for security of a claim, adopted at the request of the plaintiff.
Chapter 16. PREPARATION OF A CASE FOR PROCEEDINGS

Section 332. Original section/article: 163. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Tasks of preparation of the case 
1. The judge shall prepare the case for the court proceedings in order to ensure its timely and proper resolution after accepting the application to the court proceedings and initiating the civil case.
The judge shall make a decision on the preparation of the case for the court proceedings and indicate the actions to be taken.
2. The tasks of preparing a civil case for the court proceedings shall be obligatory in each case and as follows:
After receiving an application and initiation of a civil case, the judge prepares the case for proceedings in order to provide its timely and proper consideration and settlement.
2. The tasks for preparing the case for proceedings, mandatory for every case are:
1) clarification of circumstances, important for proper settlement of the case;
2) determination of relationships of the parties and the law to be applied;
3) settlement of the issue concerning composition of persons, participating in the case and participants;
4) determination of evidence to be submitted by each party to justify their claims.
5) assistance in facilitating the conciliation of the parties.

Section 333. Original section/article: 164. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms of preparation of the case for court proceedings 
1. Preparation of civil cases for court proceedings shall be held not later than twenty business days after the date of application’s acceptance, unless otherwise stipulated by this Code and other laws.
In exceptional cases of particular complexity, except for cases involving alimony, compensation for damage, caused by injury or other harm to health, as well as loss of a breadwinner, and on requirements, arising from employment relationships, this period may be extended up to one month on the judge’s motivated ruling.
1-1. Preparation of civil cases on disputes provided for by Part 1-2 of

Section 334. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code for trial shall be carried out no later than one month from the date of acceptance of the statement of claim for court proceedings. In cases of special complexity, this period may be extended by an additional one month at the discretion of the judge.
2. The decision on the extension of the term for preparing the case for the proceedings is not subject to appeal or revision upon the prosecutor’s request.
Footnote.

Section 335. Original section/article: 164. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 336. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Actions of the judge on preparing the case for the proceedings 
In order to prepare the case for the proceedings, taking into account the circumstances of the case, the judge shall take the following actions:
1) within three business days after the date of acceptance of the claim, send the claim in accordance with the procedure provided by the Chapter 11 of this Code or hand over to the respondent and to the third parties copies of the claim and documents attached to it substantiating the plaintiff’s requirements and also oblige the defendant to submit a written notice response to the claims submitted by the plaintiff with the statement of evidence supporting the arguments;
2) if the defendant or other persons participating in the case declare to the court that the documents attached to the claim are not received, the court shall ensure that the plaintiff is with them in the court and upon the procedural request of these persons for delivery the plaintiff shall provide copies of the mentioned documents;
3) clarify to the parties their procedural rights and obligations, suggest clarifying the procedural documents submitted and circumstances mutually disputed by the parties;
4) explain the parties the legal consequences of the late submission of evidence within the time limit established by the court and unjustifiable delays in the process established by this Code;
5) shall explain to the parties the right to resolve the dispute by a settlement agreement, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation or an agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the manner of a participatory procedure, or to seek resolution of the dispute in arbitration, the court of the Astana International Financial Center and their legal consequences;
6) clarify the legal representatives of minors of the plaintiff or the defendant the right to file a procedural request for the transfer of the case on jurisdiction to the district and equivalent court at the place of residence (location) of the child;
7) deliver the issue of the composition of the persons participating in the case, including the entry of the third party into the case and also decide on the replacement of the inappropriate defendant;
8) notify on receipt of the claim to the court to the persons interested in the outcome of the proceedings in the case;
9) appoint an expert examination and also resolve the issue of involving a specialist or an interpreter in the case at the procedural request of the party or on its own initiative;
10) resolve the issue of summoning witnesses to the court session;
11) oblige citizens and legal entities to provide evidence relevant to the proper consideration and resolution of the case at the procedural request of the party, explain the legal consequences established by the part seven of the

Section 337. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
12) produce the notice of the persons participating in the case, on-site inspection of written and physical evidence in cases that do not tolerate delay;
13) send court requests;
14) make a decision on the return of the claim submitted by him upon request of the plaintiff;
15) in the case where a participatory procedure is performed between the parties in a pre-trial settlement or where evidence reflected in the pre-trial protocol is mutually disclosed and presented at the acceptance of the claim, obligate the parties to present documents and evidence obtained in the course of the participatory procedure or reflected in the pre-trial protocol; obligate the parties to submit documents and evidence obtained in the course of the participatory procedure or reflected in the pre-trial protocol; interrogate the plaintiff on the merits of his/her claims, clarify with the plaintiff the facts he/she disputes, the possible objections of the defendant, offer, if necessary, to present additional evidence, explain to the parties their procedural rights and obligations;
16) perform other procedural actions necessary for the correct and timely consideration and resolution of the case.
Footnote.

Section 338. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 49-VI dated 27.02.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 339. Original section/article: 166. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Statement of defense to the statement of claim 
1. The defendant shall submit to the court a statement of defense with documents, supporting his objections to the claim, as well as documents, confirming sending of copies of the statement of defense and the attached documents. The judge shall send or hand the plaintiff and other persons participating in the case copies of the answer and the documents attached to it within three business days.
2. The withdrawal shall be submitted no later than in ten business days after of receipt of the copy of the petition.
3. A written statement of defense to the statement of claim can be brought by other persons participating in the case
4. The statement of defense shall include:
1) the name of the plaintiff, his location or place of residence;
2) the name of the defendant, his location; if the defendant is a citizen, then his place of residence is indicated;
3) the arguments on the basis of the stated claims with the reference to the evidence substantiating them;
4) the list of the documents attached to the answer.
In addition to the requirements specified in subparagraphs 1) – 4) of this part, the response submitted and signed by the representative must contain a reference to the evidence and the rule of law according to which the objections are justified. The response may contain phone numbers, fax numbers, email addresses and other information necessary for the correct and timely consideration of the case.
5. The failure of the defendant to submit the answer and evidence shall not preclude the examination of the case on the evidence in the case.
6. The statement of defense shall be signed by the defendant or his representative. The power of attorney or another document confirming his authority shall be attached to the answer signed by the representative.
The answer submitted in the form of an electronic document shall be certified by the electronic digital signature of the respondent or the representative. The submitted answer shall be attached in an electronic form with the copies of the documents referred to in this Article.
Footnote.

Section 340. Original section/article: 166. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 49-VI dated 27.02.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 341. Original section/article: 167. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consolidation and dissolution of several statements of claims 
1. The judge allocates one or several of the requirements consolidated by the plaintiff to a separate proceeding, if the separate consideration of the requirements will be more appropriate.
2. In case of bringing of the requirements by several plaintiffs or to several defendants, the judge has right to allocate one or more claims to a separate proceeding, if separate consideration will be more appropriate.
3. The judge, having established that the Court considers several homogeneous cases, involving the same parties, or several cases on claims of a plaintiff to different defendants or different plaintiffs to the same defendant, shall be entitled to bring these cases into one case for joint consideration, if such consolidation will be appropriate.
4. The time period for consideration of the case after the separation of one claim from another shall be calculated from the date of the completion of the preparation of the case for the court proceedings on the highlighted claim.
The term of consideration of the case after consolidation of the cases in one proceeding is calculated from the date of the completion of the preparation of the case for the court proceedings upon requested earlier.
5. The definition on joinder or severance of several claims shall not be subjected to appeal, revision upon request of the prosecutor. Arguments of disagreement with the definition shall be specified in the appeal, the procedural request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 342. Original section/article: 167. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 343. Original section/article: 168. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension, termination of proceedings upon the case and leaving of a claim without consideration while preparing the case for court proceedings 
1. In the presence of the circumstances provided for in Articles 272, 273, subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 4), 5) and 6) of

Section 344. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 8)and 9) of

Section 345. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the proceedings on the case during its trial preparation may be suspended or terminated, or the application may be left without consideration.
2. The parties shall be explained the consequences of such procedural act.
Footnote.

Section 346. Original section/article: 168. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 347. Original section/article: 169. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Change in the subject or grounds of the claim, increase or decrease of the relief demanded in the claim 
1. The plaintiff shall have the right to change the grounds or subject of the claim, increase or decrease the number of claims by submitting a written application before the court's leaving to render a decision in the absence of the need for additional procedural actions.
On the change in the grounds or subject of the claim, increase or decrease in the size of the claim requirements it may be declared after the pre-trial procedure for settlement the dispute, if such procedure is established by law or provided for in the contract.
2. Simultaneous or in any sequence change of the subject and the basis of the claim shall mean that the plaintiff submits a new claim and the plaintiff’s refusal of the previously filed claim results the termination of the proceedings on the previously filed claim. Simultaneous or in any sequence change of the subject and the basis of the claim is allowed in case of conclusion of an agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation.
3. The court shall not, on its own initiative, change the subject or cause of the claim.
Footnote.

Section 348. Original section/article: 169. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 349. Original section/article: 170. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abandonment of a claim by a plaintiff 
1. The plaintiff shall have the right to withdraw the claim until the court's leaving to render a decision by filing a written application in the courts of the first and appellate instances.
2. Before the nonsuit, the court shall explain the plaintiff or the parties the consequences of the relevant legal proceedings.
3. In case of acceptance of the nonsuit, the court shall issue a decision on the termination of the proceedings, where a private petition shall be filed or the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal.
4. If the court shall not accept the nonsuit on the grounds stipulated by the second part of the

Section 350. Original section/article: 48. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code or if the requirements of the first paragraph of this Article, the court shall continue the case on the merits and indicate the reasons for not accepting the nonsuit in the court decision or order.
Footnote.

Section 351. Original section/article: 170. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 352. Original section/article: 171. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The acceptance of claim by the defendant 
1. The defendant shall have the right to recognize the claim in full or in part before the court's leave to render a decision by filing a written application in the courts of the first and appellate instances.
2. The acceptance of the claim by the defendant shall relieve the court from the obligation to search the evidence. In the case of the acceptance of the claim in the part of the search, the evidence shall be delivered only in the part where the claim is not recognized by the defendant.
3. Before the acceptance of the claim, the court shall explain the plaintiff, the defendant or the parties the consequences of the relevant procedural actions.
4. On acceptance of the claim by the defendant in full or in part or on non-acceptance of such recognition on the grounds provided in the part two of the

Section 353. Original section/article: 48. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and shall be indicated in the decision or order of the court.
Footnote.

Section 354. Original section/article: 171. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 355. Original section/article: 172. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The preliminary court hearing 
1. According to the results of the preparation of the case for the court proceedings a preliminary court hearing shall be held with a view to procedurally consolidating the administrative actions of the parties and other persons participating in the case, made during the preparation of the case for the judicial examination, the study of the omission of terms of appeal to court and limitation periods.
2. The parties and other persons participating in the case shall be notified about the time and place of the preliminary court hearing. The absence of any of the summoned persons is not an obstacle for holding the preliminary court hearing.
3. During the preliminary court session, the court shall discuss the circumstances of the case with the parties, ask questions and determine the nature of the disputed legal relationship and circumstances conducive to reconciliation of the parties. The parties present and other persons participating in the case shall be heard.
4. In accordance with this Code, the judge shall take all measures that are still required to prepare the case for the judicial examination. In the extraordinary complexity of the case the judge shall extend the time for preparing the case for the court proceedings in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
5. The court shall set a deadline for submitting a written answer to the petition, if the defendant did not submit it by the deadline set earlier or submitted the answer on all the requirements and grounds for the petition. Upon request of the court the answer shall be submitted directly to the preliminary court hearing.
6.If the period of limitation or the period of appeal to the court is missed without valid reasons, the judge shall decide to refuse the claim without searching other factual circumstances in the case. The fact of absence in the period shall be established on the basis of the plaintiff's procedural request on the restoration of the missed period or the defendant's procedural request of the limitation period.
7. If the court accepts the claim in the procedure established by the

Section 356. Original section/article: 171. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the judge shall decide on the satisfaction of the claim without investigation of the circumstances of the case.
In the absence of the need for additional legal proceedings or the search of the evidence, the court shall decide on the basis of the stated requirements.
8. If there are grounds provided by this Code, the proceedings in the preliminary court hearing shall be suspended or terminated, the application shall be left without consideration.
9. The court records shall be kept according to the rules provided by the second part of the

Section 357. Original section/article: 281. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
10. The prosecutor shall participate in the preliminary hearing in cases when the obligation to participate is established by this Code.

Section 358. Original section/article: 173. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The assignment of case for judicial examination 
The judge, having recognized the case as prepared, shall notify the parties and other participants of the case of the time and place of the consideration of the case in the court session.
The court proceedings shall be started no later than in twenty business days from the date of the completion of its preparation.
The suspend of proceedings as a rule is not allowed, except for the cases provided by the

Section 359. Original section/article: 198. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
Footnote.

Section 360. Original section/article: 173. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 17. SETTLEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Section 361. Original section/article: 174. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The conciliation of the parties 
1. The court (judge) shall undertake measures to reconcile the parties, assist them in resolving the dispute at any stage of the process by issuing an invitation to the parties to participate in the conciliation procedure.
The invitation shall notify the parties of the receipt of the claim in court with a clarification of the right to resolve the dispute (conflict) by conciliation procedure (amicable agreement, mediation, participatory procedure), the advantages of conciliation, as well as the right to mutually disclose and present evidence pursuant to paragraphs one and two of

Section 362. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
When interim measures are taken, the invitation shall be sent after the relevant ruling.
2. The parties shall settle the dispute in full of mutual claims either in part by entering into a settlement arrangements, an arrangement on resolving a dispute (conflict) in mediation or an agreement on resolving a dispute in a participative procedure or using other methods in the procedure established by this Code.
3. A petition for the settlement of a dispute with the use of conciliation procedures may be filed in any case of action proceedings unless otherwise provided by this Code or the law.
Footnote.

Section 363. Original section/article: 171. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 364. Original section/article: 175. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The settlement agreement conclusion 
1. A settlement agreement may be concluded before the court's leaving to render a decision in the courts of the first, appellate, cassation instances, as well as during the execution of a judicial act.
2. The settlement agreement shall not violate the rights and legitimate interests of other persons and be contrary to the law.
3. The settlement agreement shall be approved by the court (judge).
Footnote.

Section 365. Original section/article: 175. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 366. Original section/article: 176. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The form and content of the civil agreement 
1. The settlement agreement shall be concluded in written form and signed by the parties or their representatives if they have the authority to enter into the settlement agreement specifically provided in the power of attorney.
2. The settlement agreement shall contain the terms agreed upon the parties, indicating the date and procedure for its satisfaction.
3. The conclusion of the settlement agreement under the suspense condition is not allowed.
4. The settlement agreement shall contain conditions on deferral or installment of the performance of obligations by the defendant indicating the terms of deferral or installment, assignment of the right of claim, full or partial forgiveness or recognition of the debt, distribution of court costs, conditions of compulsory satisfaction of the settlement agreement and other conditions that do not contradict the law.
If there is no condition on the distribution of court costs in the civil agreement, they shall be considered as mutually extinguished.
5. The settlement agreement shall be drawn up and signed in the number of copies, exceeding by one copy the number of persons who have entered into the civil agreement. One of these copies shall be attached to the case file by the court that approved the civil agreement.

Section 367. Original section/article: 177. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The settlement agreement approval 
1. The petition of the parties for the approval of a settlement agreement may be considered by the court in a court session. The participants of the case shall be notified of the time and place of the court session.
In case of absence at the court session of the parties duly notified of the time and place of the court session and the absence of an application on the consideration of the procedural request without their participation, the court shall not consider the procedural request for approval of the civil agreement.
2. The court shall explain the parties the legal consequences of concluding the settlement agreement before its approval.
3. The court shall make a decision on the approval of the settlement agreement and the termination of the proceedings or the refusal to approve the settlement agreement based on the results of consideration.
4. The court shall not approve a settlement agreement if it is contrary to the law or violates the rights and legitimate interests of other citizens. In case of refusal to approve the settlement agreement, the court issues a ruling on it, which shall be recorded in the protocol of the court session and appealed and is not subject to revision at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments of disagreement with the ruling may be indicated in the appeal, the prosecutor's petition.
5. The court’s ruling on the approval of the settlement agreement shall indicate:
1) the approval of the settlement agreement and termination of the proceedings;
2) the terms of the settlement agreement and the time of its satisfaction;
3) the distribution of legal costs in accordance with the fourth part of the

Section 368. Original section/article: 176. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
4) the return of the state duty paid by the plaintiff from the budget.
6. The settlement agreement concluded at the stage of the satisfaction of a judicial act shall be submitted for approval to the court of the first instance at the place of satisfaction of the judicial act or to the court that accepted the specified judicial act.
7. The private petition shall be submitted to the ruling of approval of the settlement agreement and the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal.
Footnote.

Section 369. Original section/article: 177. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 370. Original section/article: 178. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The settlement agreement satisfaction 
1. The settlement agreement shall be satisfied by the persons who have concluded it voluntarily in the manner and terms provided by this agreement.
2. The settlement agreement that is not satisfied voluntarily shall be subjected to the enforcement on the basis of a writ issued by the court upon request of the person who concluded the civil agreement.

Section 371. Original section/article: 179. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation 
1. The parties shall have the right before the court's leaving to render a decision in the courts of the first, appellate, cassation instances, file a petition for the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation with the assistance of a judge or a mediator.
2. The judge who conducts the mediation shall set the day for the mediation and notify the parties of the time and place of the mediation. Mediation shall be conducted by a judge in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Mediation" and taking into account the specifics established by this Code.
At the request of the parties, the court shall have the right to postpone the mediation procedure within the time limits established by part one of

Section 372. Original section/article: 150. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, part four of this Article, and call other citizens for mediation if their participation will contribute to the settlement of the dispute (conflict).
3. If the parties have not reached an agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation with the assistance of a judge before the acceptance of the statement of claim, the materials related to the case shall be transferred for consideration to another judge in the manner prescribed by part seven of

Section 373. Original section/article: 35. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
With the consent of the parties, the case may be considered by the judge who conducted the mediation.
4. Upon receipt of a petition for the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation with the assistance of a judge in a case that is in the proceedings of a court of the first instance or appellate instance, the court shall have the right to suspend the proceedings in accordance with subparagraph 7) of

Section 374. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code for not more than ten working days.
For mediation in the court of the first instance, the case shall be transferred to another judge. At the request of the parties, mediation may be conducted by the judge in charge of the case.
If an agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) is not reached, further consideration of the case may be continued by the same judge with the consent of the parties.
For mediation in the court of appeal, the case shall be referred, as a rule, to one of the judges of the collegiate composition of the court.
5. Upon receipt of a petition for the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation with the assistance of a mediator in a case that is in the proceedings of a court of the first instance or appellate instance, and the presentation of an agreement concluded by the parties with the mediator, the court is obliged to suspend the proceedings in accordance with subparagraph 7)

Section 375. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code for a period not exceeding one month.
6. The petition of the parties for the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation may be filed in the court of cassation if this does not require additional procedural actions and suspension of the consideration of the case. Simultaneously with the petition in the court of cassation, the parties shall submit an agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation.
7. The protocol of proceedings of the mediation in the court shall not be kept.
8. If an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) by way of mediation is concluded at the stage of execution of a judicial act, it shall be submitted for approval to the court of the first instance at the place of execution of the judicial act or to the court that issued the said judicial act.
Footnote.

Section 376. Original section/article: 179. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 377. Original section/article: 180. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The agreement on settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation and its satisfaction 
1. The judge (composition of the court) in whose proceedings the case is located, shall check the content of the agreement on settlement of a dispute(conflict) in the procedure of mediation and make a decision on its approval and termination of the proceedings.
2. The agreement on settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation, the ruling of approval of this agreement shall comply with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Mediation" and the Articles 176, 177 of this Code.
3. If the parties have not reached an agreement in the process of mediation or the terms of the agreement have not been approved by the court, the proceedings shall be conducted in a general order.
4. The satisfaction of the agreement on settlement of a dispute(conflict) in the procedure of mediation, approved by the court, shall be made according to the rules for the satisfaction of the civil agreement established by the

Section 378. Original section/article: 181. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Settlement of a dispute in the participative procedure 
1. The parties shall have the right, before the court's leaving to render a decision in accordance with the rules provided for in

Section 379. Original section/article: 179. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, to file a petition for the settlement of a dispute in the participative procedure.
2. The participatory procedure shall be carried out without the participation of a judge through negotiations between the parties to resolve the dispute with the assistance of lawyers of either parties or citizens who are members of the chamber of legal consultants in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Advocacy and Legal Assistance".
Footnote.

Section 380. Original section/article: 181. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 381. Original section/article: 182. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The agreement on the settlement of a dispute by the participative procedure and its satisfaction 
1. The judge (the composition of the court) in whose proceedings the case shall examine the content of the dispute adjustment agreement by way of a participative procedure and decide on its approval and termination of the proceedings in accordance with the

Section 382. Original section/article: 177. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. The agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the form of a participative procedure, the determination on the approval of the agreement shall comply with the requirements of the Articles 176 and 177 of this Code.
3. If the parties have not reached an agreement through participative procedure or the terms of the agreement have not been approved by the court, the proceedings shall be conducted in a general order.
4. The satisfaction of the agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the form of a participative procedure, approved by the court, shall be carried out according to the rules of satisfaction of the adjustment agreement, established by the

Section 383. Original section/article: 178. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Chapter 18. COURT PROCEEDINGS

Section 384. Original section/article: 183. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms of consideration and settlement of civil cases 
1. Terms of consideration and settlement of civil cases correspond to its actual complexity and the interests of the persons participating in the case.
2. The civil cases shall be considered and resolved by the court within two months from the date of completion of the preparation of the case for the judicial examination.
Civil cases on reinstatement at work, on the establishment of paternity and the recovery of alimony, as well as cases of special claim and special proceedings, are considered and resolved by the court within one month from the date of completion of the preparation of the case for trial. Cases on recognizing strikes as illegal, recognizing an organization engaged in extremism or terrorist activities on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) another state as extremist or terrorist, including establishing its name change, as well as recognizing information materials imported, published, manufactured and (or) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan as extremist or terrorist are considered and resolved within ten working days from the date of receipt of the claim in court.
3. This Code may establish other terms for consideration and resolution of the certain categories of civil cases.
4. Terms of consideration and settlement of the case where the counterclaim shall be filed and calculated from the date of the completion of the preparation of the case for the court proceedings in the main claim.
The review duration shall be established by the court, taking into account reasonableness and sufficiency.
5. Terms of consideration and settlement of the case separated from the main case, as well as cases combined into one case for joint consideration shall be calculated in accordance with the fourth part of the

Section 385. Original section/article: 167. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
6. The review duration of consideration and determination of a case when appealing a court ruling in accordance with the procedure established by this Code shall be interrupted from the moment the case sent to a higher court until it reaches the court of first instance, except for appealing the ruling on securing a claim.
Footnote.

Section 386. Original section/article: 183. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 387. Original section/article: 184. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court session 
The Public litigation of a civil case by the court shall take place in a court session with the obligatory notification of the persons participating in the case.

Section 388. Original section/article: 185. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chairperson of the court session 
1. Obligations of the chairperson shall be performed by the judge. The chairperson shall chair the court session by providing a complete, comprehensive and objective investigation of all circumstances, compliance with the procedure of proceedings, execution of the parties’ procedural rights and performance of their obligations by them, educational impact of the process, removing all aspects not related to the case from the court proceedings.
2. In case of any objections of any of the participants of the process against the chairperson’s actions, these objections shall be recorded in the minutes of the court session. The chairperson explains own actions.
3. The chairperson shall take necessary measures to provide proper order at the court session. His orders shall re obligatory for all participants, as well as for people, sitting in the court room.
Failure to comply with the requirements of the chairman related to observance of order at the court session leads to responsibility provided by the law in accordance with the requirements of the Articles 119 and 120 of this Code.

Section 389. Original section/article: 186. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Directness and oral nature of judicial proceedings 
1. During the proceedings the judge shall directly investigate evidence of the case.
The court shall be obliged to listen to explanations of the parties and other people participating in the case, testimony of witnesses, expert opinions, conclusions of the state bodies and local authorities, to examine the documents, the evidence, listen to recording and watch videos, photographs, and read materials of other means of informational transformation. During the proceedings the court listens to consultations and explanations of the specialist, if necessary.
2. The proceedings shall be held orally. In case if the judge is replaced in the course of the case proceedings, the case shall be considered from the very beginning.
3. The hearing of the explanations of the parties, other persons participating in the case, the testimony of witnesses, expert opinions, conclusions of state bodies and local self-government bodies shall be carried out by the court via videoconferencing.

Section 390. Original section/article: 187. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Order in the Courtroom 
1. When the judge enters the courtroom, all participants shall stand up. All persons present in the courtroom shall stand up to listen to the court decision or ruling, which ends the case without issuing a decision.
2. The persons participating in the case and the citizens who present in the courtroom address to the judge as “Honorable Court”.
The judicial session participants shall give the explanations and objective evidence, questions and answers to them standing up with the permission of the presiding judge. The deviation from this rule shall be allowed only with the permission of the presiding judge.
3. The persons participating in the case, as well as the citizens who present in the courtroom shall be obliged to keep the order in the courtroom.
4. The rules of this Article shall be applied taking into account the specifics of participation in a trial using technical means of communication.
Footnote.

Section 391. Original section/article: 187. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 392. Original section/article: 187-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Usage of technical means in the court session 
1. As prescribed by this Code, persons participating in the case, their representatives, as well as witnesses, experts, specialists, and translators may use technical means with tangible and digital storage media during the trial to extract the data required concerning the issues that have arisen during the consideration of the case, to gain access to digital and legal systems, Internet resources, to ascertain proper notification and other circumstances that are relevant to the case, and to record the progress of the court hearing.
2. Failure to comply with the procedure for using technical means established by this Code shall exclude the possibility of using the data obtained and shall be the grounds for bringing the guilty citizen to respond.
3. Audio, video recording, filming and photography of the course of the trial shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of part seven of

Section 393. Original section/article: 19. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, non-compliance with which shall exclude the possibility of their usage and distribution in the future and shall be the grounds for bringing the guilty citizen to responsibility for contempt of court.
Footnote. Chapter 18 is supplemented by

Section 394. Original section/article: 187-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 395. Original section/article: 188. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Measures to be applied to violators of the order at the court session 
1. The chairperson, on behalf of the court, makes a warning to a person, violating the court order.
2. A person participating in the case shall be removed from the courtroom in case of repeated violation of the order, as determined by the court, that shall be entered into in the records of the court session, for the entire duration of the judicial session or for the part of it. If later, the chair person shall acquaint the person, newly admitted to the courtroom, with the procedural actions taken in his absence. The persons returned to the courtroom shall be entitled to give explanations on the circumstances investigated in their absence and ask questions to other persons participating in the case.
3. The persons not participating in the case and present in the courtroom, for repeated violation of the order, shall be removed from the courtroom by the order of the presiding judge.
4. In the event of a mass violation of the procedure by those who present at the judicial session, the court shall remove from the courtroom all persons not participating in the case and consider the case in closed session or postpone the judicial session. On consideration and ruling of the case in a closed court session, a decision shall be made and recorded in the records of the court session.
5. When establishing the fact of the contempt of court by a person who presents in the process during the juridical session, the court shall be entitled to impose an administrative penalty on the guilty person in accordance with the procedure established by the

Section 396. Original section/article: 120. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
6. If the actions of the offender of the order at the court session contain signs of a criminal offense, this person shall be brought to the criminal responsibility in the procedure established by the

Section 397. Original section/article: 189. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Opening of the court proceeding 
1. At the appointed time for the hearing, the chairperson opens the hearing and announces the civil case to be considered. When using audio or video materials, the chairperson shall declare it.
Recordings the court session by means of technically faulty audio and video equipment, or lack of it or impossibility to use it for the technical reasons.
2. The impossibility of using audio and video recordings shall not preclude the continuation of the court session.
The reasons for not using audio and video shall be reflected in the minutes of the court session.

Section 398. Original section/article: 190. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Checking the attendance of participants in proceedings 
1. The secretary of the court session shall report to the court which of the citizens summoned in this case has appeared which of them is participating through the usage of technical means of communication, whether the citizens who have not appeared have been notified and what information is available about the reasons for their absence.
2. The chairman shall establish the identity of those who have appeared, and shall also check the powers of representatives, taking into account the specifics of participation in the trial, using the technical means of communication established by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 399. Original section/article: 190. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 400. Original section/article: 191. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explanation of obligations to the interpreter 
1. The chairperson explains to the interpreter his/her duty to translate explanations, testimonies, application of persons, who do not speak the language of proceedings, and to these individuals - content of explanation, evidence, applications of persons, participating in the case, witnesses, announced documents, sound recordings, expert conclusions, consultations, the judge orders, regulations and court decision s.
2. The chairperson warns the interpreter of the liability, stipulated by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for knowingly wrong translation. The interpreter’s personal recognizance shall be attached to the minutes of the court session. In case of failure of an interpreter to appear in the court or perform his/her obligations, the interpreter may be brought to administrative responsibility in accordance with the legislation on administrative offenses.
3. Rules of this articles cover the persons having skills in finger-speech and involved by the court in the proceeding.

Section 401. Original section/article: 192. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Expelling of the witnesses from a courtroom 
1. The appeared witnesses shall be expelled from the courtroom. 
2. A chairperson shall take measures so that the questioned do not communicate with the witnesses yet not questioned by the court.

Section 402. Original section/article: 193. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Announcement of the court composition and explanation of the right for recusal 
1. The chairperson announces the court composition, informs who is involved in the proceeding as a prosecutor, an expert, a specialist, a court secretary and explains their right for recusal to those persons, participating in the case.
2. Grounds for recusal, procedure of recusal and consequences of satisfaction of such recusals are defined by the Articles 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 of this Code.

Section 403. Original section/article: 194. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explaining to the persons participating in the case their rights and responsibilities 
The presiding judge shall ascertain that the participants of the case are familiarized with the procedural rights and obligations, and in case of failure to familiarize them, shall explain their rights and obligations, and also warn about the responsibility for failure to fulfill the procedural obligations established by laws, and the occurrence of procedural consequences provided for by this Code.
The presiding judge shall explain to the parties the right to resolve the dispute by a settlement agreement, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the manner of a participatory procedure, or to resolve the dispute in another way established by law or to apply for the resolution of the dispute to arbitration, the court of the Astana International Financial Center and their legal implications.
Footnote.

Section 404. Original section/article: 194. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 405. Original section/article: 195. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Admittance of petitions from persons participating in the case 
Petitions from persons and representatives participating in the case, related to proceedings, shall be admitted by the court after hearing the opinions of other persons participating in the case, as indicated in the minutes of the court session. The court ruling shall be issued in the cases established by this Code.

Section 406. Original section/article: 196. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The consequences of failure to appear of the persons participating in the case and their representatives 
1. The participants of the case shall be obliged to notify the court in advance of the reasons for not appearing at the court session and to present evidence of the validity of these reasons related to unforeseen and (or) emergency circumstances.
2. In case of failure to appear at the court session of any of those persons participating in the case, if there is no information on their notification, the hearing of the case shall be postponed.
3. If persons participating in the case have been properly notified of the time and place of the hearing, the court postpones the hearing if the reasons for failure are recognized to be justified.
4. The court may consider the case in absence of any persons participating in the case, if they were properly notified of the time and place of the hearing and if the reasons for their failure to appear in the court are unjustified. 
5. Excluded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall take effec ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
6. The parties may request the court in written form to consider the case in their absence and send them copies of the court decision.
7. Failure to appear at the court session of a representative of the person participating in the case, notified of time and place of the hearing, shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the case. The court may postpone the hearing at the request of the person, participating in the case, in connection with absence of his/her representative for a reasonable excuse.
8. If the citizen who filed a petition for participation in the consideration of the case through the usage of technical means of communication did not ensure his/her participation, then the court shall have the right to recognize the reasons for his/her non-appearance as disrespectful.
Footnote.

Section 407. Original section/article: 196. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 408. Original section/article: 197. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of failure to appear at the court session of a witness, an expert, a specialist, an interpreter 
1. In case of failure to appear in the court of a witness, expert or a specialist, the court hears opinions of those, participating in the case, on the possibility to consider the case in their absence and issues a ruling on continuation of the proceeding or its postponement.
2. In case an interpreter failed to appear at the court session, the judge issues a ruling to postpone the hearing, if replacement of the interpreter is impossible.
3. If the summoned witness, expert, specialist or interpreter failed to appear in the court for unjustified reason, they may be subjected to administrative responsibility in accordance with the legislation on administrative offenses. They may also be subjected to forced delivery to the court in accordance with Articles 119 and 120 of this Code.

Section 409. Original section/article: 198. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Postponement of the case hearing, a recess of the trial 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 410. Original section/article: 198. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Postponement of the trial of a case shall be allowed in the following cases:
1) if the court finds it impossible to consider the case in this court session due to the non-appearance of any of the participants in the process, - in the manner prescribed by Articles 196 and 197 of this Code;
2) mass violation of the order by those present at the hearing of the case, in which the procedure provided for by paragraph four of

Section 411. Original section/article: 188. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code is applied;
3) filing a counterclaim - in the manner prescribed by part two of

Section 412. Original section/article: 153. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
4) the need to present or request additional evidence - in the manner prescribed by

Section 413. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
5) the occurrence of unforeseen and extraordinary circumstances preventing the attendance of participants at the court session or making it impossible.
2. The court is obliged to postpone hearing related to the dispute about the child in case of written notification from the authorized body of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for thirty days, in order to ensure the fulfillment of obligations under international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the receipt of statement on this child illegal transfer to, or retention in, the Republic of Kazakhstan. A copy of the statement shall be attached to the notification if the child has not reached the age when the specified international agreement is not applicable to this child.
3. In case if the case is postponed, a day of new court session shall be appointed, taking into account time, necessary to provide the case solution in the new proceeding that is notified against the participants’ receipt. The party failed to appear and newly involved persons shall be sent notifications of the time and place of a new proceeding.
4. After the postponement of the proceedings, the case shall be considered from the beginning. If the parties do not insist on repeating the explanations of all participants in the process, the court shall have the right to confine itself to confirming the previously heard explanations without repeating them, providing an opportunity to supplement them and ask additional questions.
5. The court shall have the right, taking into account the opinion of the participants of the case, to continue the consideration of the case and (or) decide during non-working hours.
6. A recess may be announced in the court session, the duration of which shall be determined taking into account the opinion of the participants of the case.
Footnote.

Section 414. Original section/article: 198. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 415. Original section/article: 199. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Questioning of witnesses in case of postponement of the hearing of the case 
When the hearing of the case is postponed, the court may interrogate witnesses present in the courtroom, if the parties are present in the hearing. Secondary summon of these witnesses to the new court session shall be allowed only in cases of necessity

Section 416. Original section/article: 200. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explanation of the rights and responsibilities to an expert and specialist 
The chairperson explains to the expert and specialist their rights and responsibilities, warns about criminal liability for giving knowingly false conclusion; the expert gives a hand receipt to be attached to the minutes of the court session. 
The specialist shall be explained his procedural rights and duty to assist the court in carrying out the necessary legal actions.

Section 417. Original section/article: 201. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Beginning of considering the case on its merits 
1. Considering the case on the merits shall begin with the presiding judge clarifying whether the plaintiff supports his/her claims, whether the defendant recognizes the claims of the plaintiff and whether the parties do not want to end the case with a settlement agreement or refer the case for consideration to arbitration, the court of the Astana International Financial Center, or resolve the dispute (conflict) in the manner of mediation or participatory procedure or in another way established by law.
2. After that, the judge shall state: 
1) claims of the plaintiff;
2) objections of the defendant;
3) facts not disputed by the parties and disputed by them, as well as evidence presented by the parties, attached to the case.
Then the judge shall find out whether the parties wish to make any additions and (or) clarifications.
Footnote.

Section 418. Original section/article: 201. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 419. Original section/article: 202. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explanation of persons participating in the case and establishment of order for examining evidence 
1. The court shall hear explanations from the plaintiff and a third party participating in the case on the part of the plaintiff, a defendant and a third party
The persons bringing the suit in accordance with part three of

Section 420. Original section/article: 55. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code in the interests of the plaintiff shall first give explanations on the circumstances of the case and present the evidence.
The persons participating in the cases have the right to ask each other questions in the order and sequence established by the chairperson. Number of questions asked shall not be limited but the chairperson has the right to exclude questions not related to the subject of the dispute and the circumstances on which the plaintiff’s claims and the defendant’s objections are based.
2. Written explanations of the persons participating in the case not appeared at the court session for reasonable excuse, as well as evidence obtained in the procedure provided in Articles 69, 71, 74, 75 of this Code, shall be announced by the chairperson and examined at the court session.
2-1. The court shall have the right to ask questions to the participants of the case to obtain information on the facts to substantiate the claims and objections of the parties, as well as to clarify other circumstances that are important for the full and timely resolution of the case.
3. Upon hearing the explanations of the persons participating in the case and taking into account their opinions, the court establish the procedure for examining other evidence.
4. The explanations of the persons participating in the case shall be obtained and the evidence investigated by the court by using technical means of communication. 
Under a court order, the investigation of evidence shall be carried out by the court at the location of these persons or evidence.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 421. Original section/article: 202. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 422. Original section/article: 203. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Warning the witness about liabilities for failure to give evidence and for willful false testimony 
1. Before the questioning of the witness, the chairperson establishes identity of the witness, explains his/her obligations and rights, and warns him/her of criminal liability for failure to give evidence and for willful false testimony. The witness including a witness reaching 16-year age is also explained that he/she shall have right to refuse to give evidence against himself/herself, his/her wife (husband) and close relatives, and clergy - to give evidence against the persons confessed to him. 
2. The judge explains to a witness under sixteen his/her obligation to tell all he/she knows about the case, but he/she shall not be warned about criminal liability for refusal to give evidence and for willful false testimony.

Section 423. Original section/article: 204. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for questioning of a witness 
1. Each witness shall be interrogated separately. The witnesses, who have not given evidences, cannot be present in the courtroom during the hearing.
2. The chairperson checks a witness’s relation to the persons, participating in the case and offers the witness to tell the court everything what he/she personally knows about the case.
3. After giving free-form testimony, the witness may be asked questions. The first person, who asks questions, is a plaintiff, his/her representative, and then other persons participating in the case and representatives. The judge may ask questions to the witness at any time of interrogation.
4. If necessary, the court may question the witness again in the same or the next session, as well as to arrange a face-to-face confrontation between the witnesses to clarify contradictions in their testimony.
5. The questioned witness stays in the courtroom until the end of the proceedings, unless the court allows him/her to leave the courtroom earlier.

Section 424. Original section/article: 205. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Use of written materials by the witness 
1. Witness when giving evidence can use written materials in cases when the evidence is associated with any digital or other data difficult to keep in mind. These materials shall be presented to the court and persons participating in the case, and can be attached to the case that is indicated in the minutes of court session.
2. The witness shall be permitted to read available documents related to his/her testimony and can be attached to the case that is indicated in the minutes of court session.

Section 425. Original section/article: 206. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The interrogation of under-age witness 
1. Questioning a witness under fourteen, and at the court’s discretion questioning of witnesses of 14-16 years shall be conducted at presence of a teacher summoned to the court. These persons may ask the witness questions and tell their opinions on the identity of the witness and content of his/her evidence. 
2. In exceptional cases, if necessary, to establish circumstances of the case, at the time of the interrogation of under-age witness, a certain person, participating in the case, can be expelled from the courtroom by the judge’s ruling, that is entered into the minutes of court section. After his/her returning to the courtroom, he/she shall be told the content of the testimony of under-age witness and have an opportunity to ask questions to the witness.
3. A witness, who is under 16, in the end of his/her interrogation, shall be expelled from the courtroom, unless the court deems this witness’s presence in the courtroom to be necessary.

Section 426. Original section/article: 207. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of witness’s testimony 
The testimony of the witnesses, collected in accordance with the procedures provided in the Articles 69, 71, 74, 75 and 199 of this Code, shall be announced at the court hearing, after that the persons participating in the case are entitled to give explanations on them.

Section 427. Original section/article: 208. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inspection of documents 
Documents or records of inspections, prepared in accordance with Articles 71, 75 and the subparagraph 12) of the

Section 428. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be announced at the court session and presented to the persons participating in the case, representatives, and, if necessary, to the experts, specialists and other witnesses. After that, the persons, participating in the case, may give their explanations

Section 429. Original section/article: 209. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure and studying of personal correspondence and telegraphic messages of citizens 
In order to protect confidentiality of private correspondence and messages, the telegraph messages and correspondence may be read and studied in open court only under consent of the persons between whom these messages were sent. If these persons do not give such consent, their personal correspondence and private telegraph messages shall be read and studied in a closed court session. After that, the persons, participating in the case, may give their explanations

Section 430. Original section/article: 210. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Studying of material evidence 
1. Material evidence shall be studies by the court and presented to the persons participating in the case, representatives, and, if necessary, to experts, specialists and witnesses. The persons, who were given the evidence, may draw the court’s attention to certain facts, related to the inspection. These statements shall be recorded in the minutes of the court session. 
2. Minutes of studying evidence drawn up in accordance with Articles 71, 75, 96, 97 and the subparagraph 12) of the

Section 431. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, shall be announced at the court session, after which the persons participating in the case may give their explanations.

Section 432. Original section/article: 211. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On-site inspection 
1. Documents and material evidence, which are difficult to submit or they cannot be delivered to the court, shall be examined and inspected on the site. The court issues a ruling on the inspection which is entered into the minutes of the court session.
2. The persons participating in the case, their representatives shall be notified of the time and place of examination, but their absence shall not hamper the inspection. Experts, specialists and witnesses may be summoned to the court, if necessary.
3. Results of the inspection shall be recorded in the minutes of the court session. Plans, diagrams, drawings, calculations, copies of documents, other documents and photographs of material evidence, video and film materials shall be attached to the minutes.

Section 433. Original section/article: 212. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Listening to sound recordings, demonstration of video and film materials and their studying 
1. During demonstration of personal audio, video recordings, film materials, as well as their study, provisions of third part of

Section 434. Original section/article: 209. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be applied. 
2. Audio, video demonstrations shall be held in the courtroom or in another specially equipped room, with recording of distinctive features of the material, indicating the time of demonstration. After that the court shall listen to the explanations of the persons participating in the case.
3. Audio and video materials can be replayed fully or partially if necessary.
4. In order to elucidate the information, contained in audio and video recordings, the court may involve a specialist and appoint an expertise as well.

Section 435. Original section/article: 213. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Investigation of an expert's conclusion 
1. The expert's conclusion shall be announced in the court. In order to clarify and add new information to the conclusion, the expert may be asked questions.
2. The first person to ask questions shall be the person at whose request the specialist was involved, and then comes his/her representative and other persons participating in the case and their representatives. The specialist, invited by the court, shall be asked by the plaintiff first and then by his/her representative. The court is entitled to question the expert at any time of interrogation.
3. In cases specified in

Section 436. Original section/article: 90. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the court may appoint a repeated or additional expertise.

Section 437. Original section/article: 214. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consultation (explanations) of a specialist 
1. In cases, when there is no need for special studies, the expert gives consultation (explanations) either orally or in written form.
The expert’s consultation, given in written form, shall be read out and studied in the court, and attached to the minutes of the court session. Oral consultation shall be recorded directly into the minute of the court session (procedural action).
2. In order to clarify and add new information to the expert’s consultation, the expert may be asked questions. The first person to ask questions shall be the person at whose request the specialist was involved, and then comes his/her representative and other persons participating in the case and their representatives. The specialist, invited by the court, shall be asked by the plaintiff first and then by his/her representative. The court may ask questions at any time.

Section 438. Original section/article: 215. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The conclusions of the state authorities and local self-government 
Written conclusions of the state bodies and bodies of local self-government allowed by the court to participate in the case on the basis of

Section 439. Original section/article: 56. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be announced and investigated at the court session. The court, as well as the persons participating in the case and their representatives shall ask questions to the authorized representatives of these bodies in order to clarify and supplement the conclusions.

Section 440. Original section/article: 216. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Completion of considering the case on its merits 
After examining of all the evidence, the judge shall ask the persons participating in the case and representatives, whether they wish to add something to the case materials. In case of absence of such statements, the chairperson declares completion of considering the case and the court starts pleadings.

Section 441. Original section/article: 217. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court pleadings 
1. Pleadings consist of speeches of persons participating in the case and their representatives. The participants in pleadings shall not be entitled to refer in their speeches to circumstances that were not clarified by the court, as well as to evidence that was not examined at the court hearing.
2. The plaintiff and his/her representative shall appear first and then the defendant and his/her representative come. 
3. A third party declared own claim on the subject of the dispute and his/her representative shall appear after the parties and their representatives. The third party not declared own claims and its representative shall appear after the plaintiff or the defendant as parties of the plaintiff or as parties of the defendant.
4. A prosecutor, representatives of state bodies and local self-government bodies, organizations and citizens brought a claim to the court to protect the rights, freedoms and lawful interests of other persons shall appear in the court pleadings last.

Section 442. Original section/article: 218. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Replicas 
After delivering the speeches, the persons can speak again in connection with what was said in their speeches. The right of the last replica always belongs to the defendant and his/her representative.

Section 443. Original section/article: 219. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conclusion of the prosecutor 
A prosecutor who is not a party to the case and has entered into the process in accordance with the procedure provided for in part two of

Section 444. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code gives an opinion on the merits of the dispute as a whole after judicial debate.
Footnote.

Section 445. Original section/article: 219. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 446. Original section/article: 220. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Resumption of consideration of the case on its merits 
If, during or after the court pleadings, the court finds it necessary to clarify new circumstances, relevant to the case or study new evidence, it issues a ruling on resumption of consideration of the case on its merits. Resumption of consideration of the case on its merits is reflected in minutes of the court session. After completion of considering the case, the court again hears the pleadings and, in the cases provided for by

Section 447. Original section/article: 219. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, a prosecutor’s conclusion.

Section 448. Original section/article: 221. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court’s leaving to render a decision 
After the judicial debate, and in the case provided for in

Section 449. Original section/article: 219. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, after the prosecutor has given an opinion on the case, the court retires to the conference room to pronounce the judicial act, announcing to the persons in the courtroom the time of its announcement.
Footnote.

Section 450. Original section/article: 221. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 451. Original section/article: 222. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Announcement of the decision 
1. After the adoption and signing of the court decision, the judge shall announce the decision in full or its substantive part.
1-1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
2. After announcing the operative part of the court decision, the presiding judge shall explain the legal grounds and consequences of its adoption, the procedure and terms for appealing the decision, announce the date of production of the decision in final form and when the participants of the case may receive a copy of it.
3. After the actions, stipulated by first and second part of this Article, the chairperson announces the court session to be completed.
Footnote.

Section 452. Original section/article: 222. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 19. COURT'S DECISION AND PROCEDURE OF ITS ENFORCEMENT

Section 453. Original section/article: 223. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Rendering a decision 
1. Resolution of the first instance court settling the case on its merits shall be in the form of decision.
2. The decision is made in the conference room. The presence of other persons in the conference room is not allowed.
3. After the hearing of the case, the court retires to the conference room to make a court decision.
The court shall have the right to postpone the pronouncement of the decision within the period provided for by paragraph two of

Section 454. Original section/article: 183. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, but not more than five working days.
The declared operative part of the decision shall be signed by the judge and attached to the case.
4. The decision in the final form shall be made no later than five working days after the announcement of the operative part of the decision. In the case provided by paragraph two of part three of this Article, the final decision shall be made before it is announced.
4-1. If it is impossible, for valid reasons, to prepare the announced decision in the final form, the operative part of the decision signed by the judge may be appealed in the manner prescribed by this Code.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 455. Original section/article: 223. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 456. Original section/article: 224. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legality and reasonableness of the decision 
1. The court's decision shall be legal and reasonable.
2. The court justifies the decision only on evidence that had been presented by the parties and studied at the court session.

Section 457. Original section/article: 225. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Issues to be settled in rendering the decision 
1. In rendering the decision, the court weighs the evidence, determines which circumstances, relevant to the case, were discovered and which were not, what relationship the parties have, which law should apply to this case and whether the claim can be satisfied.
2. The court settles the case within the plaintiff’s requirements
3. After being removed to the conference room to make a decision, the court, recognizing the need to additionally clarify the circumstances relevant to the case or examine the evidence, issues a ruling on the resumption of consideration of the case on the merits, which is recorded in the minutes of the court session. After the consideration of the case on the merits is completed, the court hears the judicial debate again, and in the case provided for in

Section 458. Original section/article: 219. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the prosecutor's opinion.
Footnote.

Section 459. Original section/article: 225. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 460. Original section/article: 226. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The content of decision 
1. The decision shall be rendered on in the name of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The decision shall consist of introduction, description, declaration of intent and resolution.
3. Introduction of the decision shall indicate the date and place of the decision; name of the court that rendered the decision; composition of the court; the court session secretary, the parties, other persons participating in the case and the representatives, the subject of the dispute or the asserted claim.
4. Description of the decision shall have a brief content of the plaintiff’s requirements, explanations of the defendant and explanations of the third parties involved in the case with an indication on the evidence by which they justify their arguments.
5. Declaration of intent of the decision shall briefly indicate the circumstances of the case established by the court; the evidence on which the court’s findings on rights and obligations are based; the reasons for which the court rejects certain evidence, and the laws that govern the court. In the event of recognition of the claim by the defendant in the declaration of intent, only recognition of the claim and its acceptance by the court may be indicated.
5-1. The court may refer to the legal positions of the superior court as set forth in the decision when hearing homogeneous cases under the jurisdiction provided for in Articles 27-1 and 27-2 of this Code.
5-2. In the event that it is impossible for the court to comply with the provisions outlined in the appellate or cassation court ruling, the court must give reasons for its failure to do so when it reconsiders the case.
6. Resolution part of the decision shall contain the court's conclusion on the claim satisfaction or the claim dismissal in full or partial, indicating the distribution of court costs for a period and procedure for appealing the decision, as well as other conclusions.
7. Cases when the court establishes a certain order and deadline for enforcement of the decision or orders the decision for immediate enforcement, or takes measures to ensure its enforcement, shall be indicated in the decision.
8. The decision shall be set forth in written form by the judge and be signed by him/her.
Footnote.

Section 461. Original section/article: 226. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be enacted ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 462. Original section/article: 227. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The decision on an application to challenge the legality of actions (inaction) and decision s of state bodies, local self-governments, public associations, organizations, public officials and civil officers 
Footnote.

Section 463. Original section/article: 227. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 464. Original section/article: 228. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision on recognition of regulatory act to be invalid 
Footnote.

Section 465. Original section/article: 228. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).).

Section 466. Original section/article: 229. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision on recovery of money 
When rendering a decision on recovery of money the court shall specify the amount of the recovered sum of money the currency and the party in favor of which the decision is made

Section 467. Original section/article: 230. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision on conclusion or changing of the contract 
Upon the dispute occurred while concluding or changing the contract, the resolutive part of the decision shall specify the decision on each disputable provision of the contract and upon the dispute on canvassing to conclude the contract, the of the contract and conditions under which the parties shall conclude the contract.

Section 468. Original section/article: 231. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision to adjudication of the property or its cost 
While adjudicating the property in kind the court specifies its individually defined attributes and value of the property to be recovered from the defendant, if when enforcing the decision, the adjudicated property is not available.

Section 469. Original section/article: 232. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision obliging the defendant to take certain actions 
When making a decision obliging the defendant to undertake certain actions not related to the transfer of property or money, the court shall indicate the actions and the term of their commission, which the defendant is obliged to perform to restore the violated rights, freedoms or legitimate interests of the citizen, legal entity.
The resolutive part of the decision shall state that in case of failure to perform the court decision the plaintiff has the right to perform these actions independently with recovery from the defendant incurred costs, except for the cases when the actions may be committed only by the defendant by him-/herself.

Section 470. Original section/article: 233. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision in favor of several plaintiffs or against several defendants 
1. When making a decision in favor of several plaintiffs, the court specifies proportion of relation to each of them, or specifies that the right of recovery is solidary.
2. When rendering a decision against several defendants the court specifies, in what proportion each of the defendants shall perform the decision, and specifies that their liability is solidary.

Section 471. Original section/article: 234. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sending and issue the copies of the court decision to the persons participating in the case 
The copies of the decision are sent or issued to the parties and other persons participating in the case failed to appear at the court session no later than three business days after date on which the decision is made in final form using the means of communication ensuring the receipt of it

Section 472. Original section/article: 235. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Correction of misprints and obvious arithmetic errors in the decision 
1. After the announcement of the decision on the case, the court that had made the decision shall not have the right to cancel or change it.
2. The court may, on its initiative or at the request of the participants of the case, correct clerical errors and obvious arithmetical errors made in the decision.
The court shall consider an application for the correction of clerical errors and obvious arithmetic errors in the decision within ten working days from the date of receipt of the application by the court.
The participants of the case shall be immediately notified of the receipt of the application and have the right to submit a response to the court.
The court shall have the right, at its discretion, to consider an application for the correction of clerical errors and obvious arithmetic errors in the decision without summoning the participants of the case, or to schedule a court session. Therewith, the absence of the participants of the case, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the application.
3. The court ruling on the corrections may be appealed or revised upon request of the prosecutor.
The ruling of the court on the refusal to satisfy the application for the correction of clerical errors and obvious arithmetic errors in the decision is not subject to appeal, review at the request of the prosecutor.
4. When correcting clerical errors and obvious arithmetic errors, the court shall not have the right to change the conclusions and (or) the content of the adopted decision.
Footnote.

Section 473. Original section/article: 235. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 474. Original section/article: 236. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Additional decision 
1. The court issued the decision upon application of the persons participating in the case or under its own initiative, may render an additional decision in the following cases:
1) if no decision was rendered upon any requirement on which the persons, participating in the case presented evidence and gave explanations;
2) if the court, having settled the issue concerning the right, did not specify the size of the adjudged sum, property to be transferred or actions to be performed by the defendant;
3) if the court have not settled the issue concerning the judicial expenses;
4) if the court have not settled the issue on overturning of enforcement of the court’s decision.
2. The issue concerning rendering of the additional decision may be set within the period of the court decision ’s enforcement 
The court considers and resolves the issue on rendering of the additional decision within ten business days after the application receipt by the court or from the day of discovery of circumstances specified in part one of this article.
The additional decision shall be issued by the court of first instance after considering the issue at the court session. The persons participating in the case shall be notified of the time and place of the court session, but their non-appearance absence does not preclude consideration of the issue on rendering of an additional decision.
Additional decision may be appealed? A prosecutor’s appeal petition may be brought.
3. A private petition or a protest may be filed against the court’s decision on refusal to render an additional decision.
Footnote.

Section 475. Original section/article: 236. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 476. Original section/article: 237. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explaining the decision 
1. In case of the decision ’s ambiguity, the court considered the case, may explain the decision without changing its content upon application of the persons participating in the case, as well as upon petition of enforcement agent. Explanation of the decision shall be allowed if it has not been performed yet and deadline of its forced enforcement is not expired yet. 
The court shall consider the application and petition on explaining the decision within ten business days after receipt of the application by the court.
2. An application for clarification of a decision shall be permitted by the judge without holding a court session. The participants of the case shall be notified of the receipt of an application for clarification of the decision and have the right to send a response to the application to the court.
3. A private petition or a protest may be filed against the court’s decision on explaining the decision.
The ruling of the court on the refusal to explain the decision is not subject to appeal, revision at the request of the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 477. Original section/article: 237. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017(shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 478. Original section/article: 238. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension and deferral of enforcing the decision, change of the way and order of enforcing the decision 
1. The court considered the case, upon application of the persons participating in the case, taking into account their financial status or other circumstances, shall have right to suspend or defer the deadline of the enforcing the decision and change the way and order of its enforcement.
The court shall consider and resolve the application, petition on suspension and deferral, or change of the method and procedure of the court decision enforcement within ten business after the date the application receipt by the court
2. Applications specified in the part 1 of this Article shall be considered at the court session. The persons participating in the case shall be notified of the time and place of the court session, but their absence shall not be an obstacle to settle the case.
2. A private petition or a protest may be filed against the court’s decision on deferral or extension of the deadline of enforcement the decision or changing of the way and order of its enforcement.
4. The rule of the first part of this Article regarding the suspension of the court decision enforcement shall not apply in relation to decision on recovery of a mortgage loan pledge of an individual not related with the entrepreneurial activities.
Footnote.

Section 479. Original section/article: 238. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 168-VІ dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 480. Original section/article: 239. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Indexation of adjudicated sums of money 
1. The court, at the request of the claimant, may make an appropriate indexation of the sums of money collected by the court decision based on the base rate of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the day of execution of the court decision.
2. The court shall consider and resolve an application for indexation of the amounts of money awarded within ten working days from the date of receipt of the application by the court.
The participants of the case shall be immediately notified of the receipt of the application and have the right to submit a response to the application to the court.
The court shall have the right, at its discretion, to consider an application for indexation of the awarded sums of money without summoning the participants of the case, or to schedule a court session. The failure to appear of the participants of the case, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the application.
3. A private complaint may be filed against a court ruling on indexing or refusing to index the awarded sums of money, a petition may be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, the decision of which shall be final.
Footnote.

Section 481. Original section/article: 239. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (shall come into effect from 01.01.2021).

Section 482. Original section/article: 240. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Entry of court decision into legal force 
1. Decision s of the first instance court shall enter into legal force upon expiration of terms for their appeal and protest by the prosecutor, unless they are appealed or protested.
2.Decision s of the court on restructuring of financial institutions or organizations being a part of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and non-financial institutions, shall enter into legal force from the date of their adoption and shall be subject to immediate enforcement.
3. Decision of the court on deportation of a foreigner or a stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan shall enter into legal force with effect from the date of its adoption.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021). 
5. In cases of filing an appeal, bringing an appeal by the prosecutor, the decision, if it is not cancelled and (or) not changed, shall come into effect from the moment the decision is announced by the court of appeal.
6. When the court decision enters into legal force, the parties and other persons participating in the case, as well as their successors, shall not litigate the same claims in the court for the same reasons, as well as challenge the facts and legal relations established by the court in another process.
7. If, after the entry into force of a decision by which the payments are collected from the defendant, the circumstances affecting the determination of the amount of payments or their duration change, each party shall, by filing a new claim, demand a change in the amount and time of the periodic payments.
Footnote.

Section 483. Original section/article: 240. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 484. Original section/article: 241. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Enforcement of the decision 
1. The decision, in the manner prescribed by this Code, shall be enforced after its entry into legal force, except for the cases of immediate enforcement.
2. After the court decision enters into legal force enforcement the enforcement order shall be issued.
In cases of confiscation of property, recovery to the state revenue, as well as recovery of damage caused by a crime, recovery of alimony, compensation for harm caused by injury or other damage to health, loss of a breadwinner, where the state is a party, the court, on its initiative, shall send a writ of execution for implementation to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private bailiffs by territoriality no later than the next working day from the date of its issuance.
3. Upon the court decision’s subject to immediate enforcement, an enforcement order shall be issued and sent for enforcement not later than on the day following the day of the decision rendering.
4. The (hereinafter referred to as the writ of execution) is issued by the court of the first instance within three business days after the decision entry into legal force or the case return from a superior court. The writ of execution may be issued in the electronic form certified by electronic digital signature of the judge.
The writ of execution shall indicate:
name of the court that rendered the decision;
case number and the date of the decision;
resolutive part of the decision (literally);
date of the decision entry into force;
date of the writ of execution issue;
surname, first name and patronymics (if indicated in the identity document), date of birth of the claimant, the place of residence or location, information about his/her registration at the place of residence and individual identification number or, if the plaintiff is a legal entity, its name, place of actual locations, Bank details and business identification number;
surname, first name and patronymic (if indicated in the identity document), date of birth of the debtor, the place of residence or location, information about his/her registration at the place of residence, information about the place of work and Bank details of the legal entity where the debtor works ( if available in case materials), the Bank details and an individual identification number (if available in case files) or, if the debtor is a legal entity, its name, actual location, the Bank details and business identical number.
The form of the writ of execution is approved by the authorized body of justice to ensure the execution of writ of executions.
5. For each court decision, one writ of execution shall be issued. The writ of execution shall be issued to the claimant or, upon his/her application, shall be sent by the court for implementation to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private bailiffs by territoriality.
On the basis of the court decision or verdict on collecting monies from joint and several defendants, upon request of the recoverer, several writs of execution shall be issued, the number of which corresponds to the number of joint and several defendants. Each execution sheet shall indicate the total amount of the penalty, all the defendants and their joint and several amenabilities.
If the court has taken measures to secure the claim, the copies of the documents on the measures taken to secure the claim and containing information about the location of the arrested person to secure the claim of property and persons responsible for its preservation shall be attached to the enforcement document. In the case of an extract of the writ of execution in the form of an electronic writ of execution, the documents on the security of a claim shall be attached in the form of electronic documents certified by a digital signature of the judge.
If the execution has to be in different places or if the decision is delivered in favour of several plaintiffs or against several defendants, the court, upon request of the plaintiffs, shall issue several enforcement documents with precise indication of the place of execution or that part of the decision that is subjected to the execution.
The court shall attach a copy of the judicial act or an extract from it to the writ of execution, certified by the seal of the court. In the case of an extract of the writ of execution in the form of an electronic writ of execution, a copy of the judicial act or an extract from it is attached in the form of an electronic document certified by the electronic digital signature of the judge.
6. In the event that the court makes a decision on procedural succession after the court decision is made and the court appeals for execution, an writ of execution shall be issued indicating the new debtor.
7. In the case of execution of the writ of execution, the judicial executor shall be obliged to notify the court that made the decision within ten business days or upon the expiration of the period of execution established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On executive proceedings and the status of judicial executors", shall be obliged to provide information on the reasons for non-execution. The debtor who executed the court decision before the presentation of the enforcement document for compulsory execution shall notify the court that made the decision within three business days.
If the court sends a writ of execution to the relevant body of justice or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers by territoriality, or if a writ of execution is issued to the claimant before he/she is notified of the execution of the judgment, the debtor shall notify the claimant.
8. Failure to comply with a court decision that has entered into legal force shall entail amenability provided by the law.
Footnote.

Section 485. Original section/article: 241. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 26, 2020, № 349-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 486. Original section/article: 242. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The issuance of the enforcement order or a court order copies by the court 
1. In case of loss of the original of the enforcement order or a court order (hereinafter referred to as writ of executions), the court that passed the decision or court order shall issue duplicates of the writ of executions upon the application of the recoverer or the representation of the judicial executor, in accordance with the procedural request of the justice authority.
2. The application for issuance of a duplicate of the writ of execution shall be filed with the court before the expiration of the time limit set for the presentation of the writ of execution for execution.
If the writ of execution was lost during the execution and the plaintiff became aware of this after the expiration of the deadline for submitting it for execution, the application for issuing a duplicate of the writ of execution shall be filed with the court within a month from the day when the plaintiff became aware of the loss of the writ of execution.
3. The court shall consider and determine the application for issuance of a duplicate of the writ of execution within ten business days after of its receipt in court.
The application for issuance of a duplicate of the writ of execution shall be considered at the court session with notification of the persons participating in the case about the time and place of the session, but their non-appearance is not an obstacle to resolving the issue of issuing a duplicate.
4. The court shall check and search the evidence of the loss of the enforcement document when considering the application for issuing a duplicate of the enforcement document.
5. The private petition shall be filed with the court; the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, the decision of which is final.
Footnote.

Section 487. Original section/article: 242. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 488. Original section/article: 243. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decisions subject to immediate enforcement 
The following decision s shall be subject to immediate enforcement:
1) on adjudication of alimony;
2) on adjudication of salary to employee, but not more than for three months;
3) on reinstatement;
4) compensation of damage caused by injury or other harm to health, as well as loss of a breadwinner, but not more than for three months;
5) on recognition of a strike to be illegal;
6) on restructuring financial institutions and organizations within a bank conglomerate as a parent organization and non-financial institutions;
7) on recognition of an organization extremist or terrorist carrying out extremist or terrorist activities on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) of another state, including the establishment of a change in its name by it;
8) on recognition of extremist or terrorist information materials imported, published, manufactured and (or) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9) on the introduction, early completion and extension of the temporary management of the grain-receiving enterprise;
9-1) on restoration of solvency of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
10) on debt restructuring;
11) on declaring the debtor bankrupt.
Footnote.

Section 489. Original section/article: 243. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 290-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall come into effect from 01.01.2022); dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 490. Original section/article: 244. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court’s right to bring the decision to immediate enforcement 
1. The court, at the request of the plaintiff, may bring the decision to immediate enforcement, if, due to special circumstances, delay of the enforcement may cause significant damage to the claimant or enforcement of the decision may become impossible.
2. When allowing the immediate enforcement of the decision, the court may require from the plaintiff to ensure restitution of the decision ’s enforcement in case if the court decision is cancelled.
3. The issue concerning admitting of immediate enforcement of the decision, if it was not allowed when rendering the decision, shall be considered at the court session. The persons participating in the case shall be notified of the time and place of court sessions, but their absence shall not be an obstacle to settle the issue on immediate enforcement of the decision.
4. A private petition or a protest may be filed against the court’s decision on immediate enforcement of the decision. Submission of a private petition or protest against the decision on immediate enforcement of the decision suspends enforcement of the decision.
Footnote.

Section 491. Original section/article: 244. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the its first official publication).

Section 492. Original section/article: 245. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Ensuring the decision enforcement 
The court may ensure the enforcement of the decision that is not brought to immediate enforcement in accordance with the chapter 15 of this Code.
These actions shall be carried out by the court before sending the writ of execution for implementation to the appropriate body of justice or the regional chamber of private bailiffs by territoriality.
Footnote.

Section 493. Original section/article: 245. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 26, 2020, № 349-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 494. Original section/article: 246. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension and deferral of the court decision enforcement, changes in method and order of its enforcement, approval of settlement agreement or agreement on the dispute (conflict) settlement by mediation procedure 
1. The court rendered a decision or issued an order upon the case, as well as the court at the location of enforcing the decision, upon the petition of the enforcement agent and (or) upon application of the parties, if there are circumstances, making the enforcement difficult or impossible, may, in the enforcement proceedings, defer or suspend terms of the enforcement of the court decision, change method or procedure of its enforcement and approve a settlement agreement upon application of the parties.
2. Upon the application of the parties to enforcement proceedings the court may approve conclusion of the settlement agreement or agreement on dispute (conflict) in mediation procedure. 
3. The petition of the bailiff or the application of the parties in the enforcement proceedings, as well as the settlement agreement concluded between them or the agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation shall be considered in the court session. The participants of the case shall be notified of the time and place of the session, but their failure to appear shall not be an obstacle to resolving the petition or application.
The court shall consider the application, the procedural request for postponement and installment plan execution of the court decision, changing the method and procedure for its execution, approval of the civil agreement or agreement on the settlement of the dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation within ten business days after the date of receipt of the application to the court.
4. A private petition or a protest may be filed against the court’s decision specified in part three of this article related to:
Suspension, deferral of the court decision, change of the method and procedure of its enforcement established by part three of

Section 495. Original section/article: 238. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
Approval of settlement agreement, agreement on settlement of a dispute (conflict) in mediation procedure according to part seven of

Section 496. Original section/article: 177. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 497. Original section/article: 246. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated July 11 2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 156-VI dated 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 498. Original section/article: 247. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Restitution of enforcement of the court decision 
1. In case of cancellation of the decision of the first instance court the decision s of the courts of appeal and cassation instance which are enforced fully or partially, and the court's new decision on dismissal of the claim fully or partially, the plaintiff shall reimburse everything received by him/her upon the cancelled decision (restitution of the decision ’s enforcement).
2. Restitution of the court decision enforcement is also effective in the case of cancellation of the fully or partially enforced decision of the court and rendering of new ruling on termination of proceedings on case or ruling on the claim dismissal without prejudice.

Section 499. Original section/article: 248. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of the issue concerning restitution of enforcement of the court decision 
1. The court issued a new decision upon the case, where the cancelled decision was enforced in full or partially, considers the defendants claim on restitution of enforcement in new decision upon submission of new evidences on the decision enforcement.
2. If the court while re-considering the case did not manage to settle the issue on restitution of enforcement on the canceled court decision, the defendant has a right to appeal to a court of first instance with the claim on restitution of the decision enforcement.
3. The court considers the claim on restitution of enforcement of the court decision within ten business days after its receipt in the court. The claim shall be considered at a separate court session with notification of the persons participating in the case and, if necessary, the justice body obliged to submit to the court the actual data on enforcement of the cancelled decision of the court. 
Failure of the said persons to appear in the court shall not be an obstacle to settle the case on restitution of enforcement of the court decision. If the court decision is under enforcement the enforcement agent under execution of whom the relevant case is obliged to appear at the court to present it before the court
4. A private petition or a prosecutor’s petition against the court’s decision on restitution of enforcement of the court decision may be filed to the court of appeal the decision of which is final.
Footnote.

Section 500. Original section/article: 248. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 501. Original section/article: 249. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of petitions of enforcement agent 
1. Report of an enforcement agent shall contain the requisites and place of location of the parties to enforcement proceedings, date of its initiation, data on the course of the writ of execution enforcement and grounds for appeal.
In case of the report non-conformity with the said requirements, as well as the application on withdrawal of report filing by the enforcement agent the court returns the report with the attached documents.
2. Report of an enforcement agent shall be allowed by the court at the place of residence (location) of the debtor within ten working days after its receipt in the court. The court shall notify the debtor and the recoverer of the received report of the enforcement agent, the time and place of the judicial session. Absence of the debtor or the recoverer duly notified of the time and place of the court session shall not be an obstacle to consider the case. Upon consideration of the enforcement agent report, the judge renders a ruling against which the private petition may be filed, and prosecutor’s protest may be brought. 
A copy of the court ruling shall be sent to the debtor and the claimant within three working days.
Footnote.

Section 502. Original section/article: 249. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 503. Original section/article: 250. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Appeal against actions (inaction) of an enforcement agent 
Footnote.

Section 504. Original section/article: 250. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 505. Original section/article: 250-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Foreclosure on the debtor's immovable property in enforcement proceedings 
1. In the course of the enforcement of a court decision, should it be impossible to pay off the debt using other property or if the property is insufficient, the claimant or the bailiff may apply to the court with an application for foreclosure on the debtor’s real estate, including a share therein.
Moreover, during the execution of other executive documents indicated by

Section 506. Original section/article: 9. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Enforcement Proceedings and the Status of Bailiffs”, should it be impossible to pay off the debt at the expense of other property or if the property is insufficient, foreclosure on the debtor's home, including a share therein, shall be permitted by the claimant or bailiff applying to the court.
The court shall consider an application for foreclosure on the debtor's immovable property within ten working days from the date of receipt of the application by the court at the location of this property. The claimant, the debtor and the bailiff shall be notified by the court of the time and place of the court session, but their failure to appear shall not be an obstacle to the resolution of the application. The court shall issue a ruling on the results of consideration of the application.
2. The content of the claimant's or bailiff's application shall comply with the requirements of subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 5), 7) and 8) of the second part of

Section 507. Original section/article: 148. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
In the event of non-compliance of the claim filed with the court by the claimant or bailiff with the requirements of this Article, it shall be subject to return without consideration in the manner prescribed by the second part of

Section 508. Original section/article: 152. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. According to the rules of this Article, the claimant's application for foreclosure on the immovable property of the pledger who is not a debtor, or if the immovable property was acquired by the debtor under a mortgage housing loan, is not subject to consideration.
4. A private complaint may be filed against a court ruling on foreclosure or refusal to foreclose on the debtor's immovable property, or a petition may be filed by the prosecutor.
Footnote. Chapter 19 is supplemented by

Section 509. Original section/article: 250-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); with amendments introduced by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 251-VIII of 03.01.2026 (shall become effective upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 510. Original section/article: 251. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Protecting rights of other persons when enforcing the decision 
1. If a bailiff violates the law during the seizure of property, which shall be the grounds for the cancellation of the seizure, regardless of whether the property belongs to the debtor or other citizens, the applications of other citizens to cancel the seizure of property shall be considered by the court in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative proceedings. Such applications may be submitted before the sale of seized property.
A dispute about the right related to the ownership of the property subject to foreclosure may be filed by other citizens within ten working days from the day the action was taken (refusal to take the action) or from the day the citizen became aware of it. Such claims shall be considered by the court according to the rules of action proceedings.
2. The suits to release impounded property (exclusion from the inventory) shall be filed by the owners or persons owning the property under the right of economic management, operational management, lease, permanent land use or on other grounds provided by the law or contract.
3. The suits to release impounded property from arrest shall be presented to the debtor and the recoverer.
4. If the impound of the property was made by the judicial custodian in the framework of the execution of the sentence, the order to confiscate the property, that does not indicate the items to be confiscated, the defendant and the relevant body authorized to organize the work of recording, storing, evaluating and further using the property are involved as defendants, shall be converted (received) in the state ownership.
In the event the claims recognized as valid, if the property to be confiscated is located at the authority authorized to organize work on accounting, storage, evaluation and further use of the property turned into state property and transferred to them by trade, other organizations for sale, processing or gratuitously, this property shall be subjected to return specifically. In this case, in addition to the body authorized to organize the work of accounting, storing, evaluating and further using the property turned into government property, the mentioned trading and other organizations shall be involved in the case. If the property that is to be excluded from the inventory is not sold by these organizations, then they shall be obliged to return the property specifically.
5. The judge, having established, regardless of the application of interested citizens, the circumstances specified in part one of this Article, is obliged to release the property from arrest (exclude from the inventory) when considering the application in the manner established by this Article and the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative proceedings.
6. If the property, the arrest of which was made in connection with the confiscation of property, has already been sold or converted into processing, the plaintiff shall be reimbursed the amount received from the sale of property when considering the application in the manner established by this Article and the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 511. Original section/article: 251. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 512. Original section/article: 252. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sanctioning the enforcement agent’s decree 
1. In cases established by the law, the enforcement agent shall make a resolution on proceeding of enforcement processes subjected to authorization by the court or prosecutor. The decision shall set out the motives and grounds when it became necessary to take authorized actions.
2. The resolution subject to sanction by the court or the prosecutor shall be submitted by the bailiff to the court or the prosecutor at the place where the enforcement actions were performed. Enforcement proceedings shall be attached to the resolution, confirming the validity of the sanctioned actions.
3. The resolution of the enforcement agent shall be considered by the court or prosecutor within three working days of receipt of materials for authorization.
4. Having considered the resolution of the enforcement agent and the materials of the enforcement proceedings enclosed thereto, the court or prosecutor issues an authorization to carry out enforcement process or refuses to give an authorization.
Giving authorizations shall be carried out by affixing on the resolution of the enforcement agent with a stamp of the court or prosecutor "Authorizing", certified by the signature of the judge or prosecutor. In the event of a refusal to give an authorization, the judge shall issue a ruling, and prosecutor - resolution on refusal to give an authorization to conduct enforcement processes.
Giving authorization to the resolution of the enforcement agent, presented in the form of an electronic document, shall be carried out by the court or prosecutor by certifying the electronic digital signature of the judge or prosecutor. In case of refusal to give an authorization, the judge shall issue a reasoned ruling on refusal to give an authorization and prosecutor - a resolution in the form of an electronic document.
5. A decision of a bailiff to carry out enforcement actions, sanctioned by a court or a prosecutor, may be appealed in accordance with the rules provided for in

Section 513. Original section/article: 250. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
The private petition shall be submitted to the court’s decision to refuse to issue a sanction to the decision to conduct executive actions, the procedural request by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, whose decision is final.
The resolution of the prosecutor shall be appealed to the higher prosecutor or to the court in the manner established by the Law.
Footnote.

Section 514. Original section/article: 252. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 515. Original section/article: 252-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sanctioning a tax authority's decision 
1. In cases established by law, the tax authority shall issue a decision on temporary restrictions on departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan for the first director (person acting in his/her stead) of a legal entity, a structural unit of a legal entity, an individual entrepreneur and a person engaged in private practice, on suspension, on cancellation of such a restriction, subject to sanction by the court.
The decision must state the reasons and grounds for which there was a need to take the sanctioned actions.
2. A decision subject to court sanctioning shall be lodged with the tax authority to the court at the location of the legal entity, structural unit of the legal entity, individual entrepreneur, or person engaged in private practice.
Materials confirming the validity of the sanctioned actions shall be enclosed to the decision.
3. The decision of the tax authority must be reviewed by the court within three working days from the date of receipt of materials for sanction.
4. Upon examination the decision of the tax authority and the materials enclosed thereto, the court shall grant sanction for a temporary restriction on departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan for the first director (person acting in his/her stead) of a legal entity, a structural unit of a legal entity, an individual entrepreneur and a person engaged in private practice, suspension or cancellation of such a restriction, or shall refuse to grant sanction.
Sanction shall be granted by placing the court's stamp “I sanction” on the tax authority's order, certified by the judge's signature. Should the sanction is denied, the judge shall issue a ruling denying sanction.
The court shall issue a sanction to a tax authority's decision lodged in the form of an electronic document, by certifying it using the judge's electronic digital signature. In case of refusal to grant a sanction, the judge shall issue a reasoned ruling denying the sanction in the form of an electronic document. 
5. A resolution of a tax authority, upheld by a court, may be appealed pursuant to the procedure laid down in the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on administrative proceedings.
A private appeal may be lodged against the court’s decision refusing to sanction the ruling, or the prosecutor may file a petition with the court of appeal, whose decision is final.
Footnote. Chapter 19 has been supplemented with

Section 516. Original section/article: 252-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
under Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 215-VIII of 18.07.2025 (shall be enforced on 01.07.2026). 
Chapter 20. ENFORCEMENT OF ARBITRAL COURT’S DECISION S

Section 517. Original section/article: 253. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsory enforcement of arbitral court decision s 
1. In the event that the arbitral award is not executed voluntarily within the time limit established therein, the party of the arbitration proceedings, in whose favor the arbitral award was made (recoverer), shall have the right to apply to the court for enforcement of the arbitration decision according the residence of the debtor or at the location of the body of the legal entity, if the place of residence or location is unknown, then at the location of the property of the debtor.
2. An application for issuing a writ of execution shall comply with the requirements of subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 5), 7) and 8) of part two and part four of

Section 518. Original section/article: 148. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
The application for the issuance of a writ of execution shall be accompanied by:
1) the original or a copy of the arbitral decision. A copy of the decision of a permanent arbitration shall be certified by the head of this arbitration, a copy of the arbitration decision for resolving a specific dispute shall be notarized;
2) the original or a notarized copy of the arbitration agreement concluded in accordance with the procedure established by law.
If the application filed with the court does not comply with the requirements of this Article, it shall be returned without consideration in the manner prescribed by part two of

Section 519. Original section/article: 152. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. The application for issuing an enforcement order shall be filed no later than three years from the date when the term for the voluntary execution of the arbitration award expires.
4. The application for issuance of a writ of execution, filed with the omission of the established period when the application for the restoration of the term and supporting documents were not attached, is returned by the court without consideration, which is determined. The private petition shall be submitted to the determination and the procedural request by the prosecutor shall be brought to the court of appeal, the decision of which is final.
5. The court shall have the right to restore the time limit for filing the application for issuance of a writ of execution, if it recognizes the reasons for missing the specified term as valid.
5-1. The court shall return to the claimant the application for the issuance of a writ of execution, if the period for its appeal, established by the first part of

Section 520. Original section/article: 464. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, has not expired.
6. The application for issuance of the enforcement order shall be considered by the judge individually within fifteen business days from the date of receipt of the application to the court.
7. The court shall notify the debtor on the incoming application of the plaintiff about the enforcement of the arbitral award, as well as the place and time of its consideration at the court session. The recoverer is also notified about the place and time of consideration of his application. The non-appearance of the debtor or recoverer at the court session shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of the application, if the debtor has not received the procedural request to postpone the consideration of the application indicating the reasonable excuse for not being able to appear at the court session.
8. The court shall not entitle to revise the arbitral award on the merits when considering an application for issuing an enforcement order to enforce an arbitral award.
9. The court shall determine whether to issue an enforcement order or to refuse to issue it in accordance with the results of the consideration of the application.
The court ruling on the issuance of an enforcement order shall be subjected to immediate execution.
Footnote.

Section 521. Original section/article: 253. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 522. Original section/article: 254. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Issuance of an enforcement order 
1. When a court makes a decision on the issuance of an enforcement order for the enforcement of an arbitral award, the enforcement order shall be issued in accordance with the rules of the

Section 523. Original section/article: 241. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. The private petition shall be filed against the court's decision on the application for the issuance of an enforcement order for the enforcement of the arbitral award and the procedural request shall be filed by the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 524. Original section/article: 254. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 525. Original section/article: 255. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refusal to issue an enforcement order 
1. The court shall make a decision on denial of the enforcement order to enforce an arbitration award if:
1) the party against which the arbitral award was made shall submit to the court evidence that:
the arbitration agreement shall be void according to the Laws of the state to which the parties have subordinated it and in the absence of such indication - according to the Law of the country where the decision was rendered;
the arbitration award shall be rendered on a dispute that shall not be stipulated by the arbitration agreement or not subjected to its conditions or contains resolutions on matters beyond the scope of the arbitration agreement as well as due to jurisdiction of dispute to arbitration;
one of the parties was recognized by the court as incapable or partially capable to the arbitration agreement;
the party against whom the decision was made was not duly notified on the appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or for other reasons that were deemed respectful by the court and shall not present its explanations to the arbitration;
there is a legal force entered into in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds a court decision or arbitration award or a court or arbitral decision to discontinue the proceedings on the case in connection with the plaintiff’s refusal of the claim; 
the composition of the arbitration or the arbitration procedure of the proceedings did not comply with the agreement of the parties or, in the absence thereof, did not comply with the Laws of the country where the arbitration proceedings were held;
the decision has not yet become obligatory for the parties or was canceled or its execution was suspended by the court of the country in accordance with the Law of which it was rendered;
2) the court shall establish that the enforcement of this award is contrary to the public policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan or that the dispute where the award is made shall not be subjected to arbitration in accordance with the law.
2. If the arbitral award on matters covered by the arbitration agreement shall be separated from decision s on matters that are not covered by such an agreement, the issuance of an enforcement order to enforce that part of the arbitral award that is covered by the arbitration agreement shall not be denied.
3. The court shall make a decision on the issue of enforcement of an arbitration decision, where the private petition shall be filed; the procedural request shall be filed by the prosecutor in accordance with this Code.
Footnote.

Section 526. Original section/article: 255. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 21. PROCEEDINGS IN ABSENTIA AND DECISION IN ABSENTIA
Footnote. Chapter 21 is excluded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Chapter 21-1. Simplified (written) proceedings
Footnote. The law as supplemented by Chapter 21-1 under Law № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall come into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 527. Original section/article: 267-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Order of simplified (written) proceedings
1. Cases in the simplified (written) procedure shall be heard by a court under the rules of chapter 14 of this Code with the particulars set forth in this chapter.
2. Cases in the order of simplified (written) proceedings shall be heard by the judge within one month from the date of acceptance of the lawsuit. The term of consideration of the case in simplified (written) proceedings shall not be extended.
3. The court shall proceed to hearing the case under the rules of lawsuit proceedings, as indicated in the ruling on the preparation of the case for trial, if:
1) a party has filed a motion to that effect;
2) the third party's motion to intervene in the case is granted;
3) counterclaim is accepted;
4) the rights and legitimate interests of other persons may be violated by the judicial act adopted in this case;
5) it is necessary to conduct an inspection and examination of the evidence at its location, to appoint an expert examination or to hear testimony;
6) it is necessary to find out additional circumstances or investigate additional evidence.
4. The ruling on the procedure for preparing a case for trial shall specify the actions to be performed by the persons involved in the case, and the deadlines for performing these actions. The case shall be heard within the period prescribed by this Code for cases of the relevant category. The period for consideration of the case shall be calculated from the date of acceptance of the lawsuit.
5. Should several claims be asserted simultaneously, one or more of those not falling under the list specified in

Section 528. Original section/article: 267-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, and the court does not separate these claims into separate proceedings, they shall be heard in the order prescribed by Chapter 14 of this Code.

Section 529. Original section/article: 267-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cases heard in simplified (written) proceedings
1. In the order of simplified (written) proceedings, the following cases shall be heard:
1) on lawsuits for the recovery of money, if the value of the lawsuit does not exceed two thousand monthly calculation indices for legal entities, for individual entrepreneurs and citizens - one thousand monthly calculation indices;
2) irrespective of the lawsuit price for lawsuits based on the documents submitted by the plaintiff establishing the defendant's monetary obligations and (or) the documents confirming the debt under the contract.
2. In the order of simplified (written) proceedings upon the petition of the parties or on the initiative of the court other cases of action proceedings may be heard, if there are no circumstances specified in sub-paragraphs 1), 2), 3) and 4) of paragraph three of

Section 530. Original section/article: 267-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. Cases concerning disputes affecting the rights of children, excluding disputes concerning the recovery of alimony, shall not be subject to summary (written) proceedings.
4. When claims listed in part one hereof are brought without any indication that they shall be heard in simplified (written) proceedings, they shall be heard under the rules of this chapter.

Section 531. Original section/article: 267-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Specifics of hearing cases by way of simplified (written) proceedings
1. A lawsuit must comply in form and content with the requirements of Articles 148 and 149 of this Code.
2. The court shall notify the parties of the case in simplified (written) proceedings no later than the next business day from the date of its adoption by e-mail address or cellular subscriber number, as well as by other means of communication that provide a record of notification.
In the notification, the court shall specify the right of the parties to resolve the dispute through conciliation procedures, as well as the right to mutually disclose and present evidence in accordance with paragraphs one and two of

Section 532. Original section/article: 73. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. Within fifteen business days from the date of receipt of notification, parties that do not agree with hearing the case in simplified (written) proceedings may submit to the court a petition to hear the dispute according to the rules of action proceedings in the general order, and the defendant - a response (objection) to the lawsuit accompanied by documents and evidence.
4. A petition to hear a dispute by general procedure, received by the court after a judgment has been rendered, shall be accepted and treated as an application to set aside that judgment.
5. The court shall hear the case in simplified (written) proceedings in electronic format without summoning the parties after the deadline set by the court for the submission of a response, evidence and other documents has expired.
6. The court may perform certain procedural actions envisaged by sub-paragraphs 5) and 6) of paragraph three of

Section 533. Original section/article: 267-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, within the time limits established by paragraph two of

Section 534. Original section/article: 267-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Following certain procedural actions, further implementation of simplified (written) proceedings shall continue without making any additional rulings.
7. The court shall review the explanations, objections and/or arguments set forth in the documents filed by the parties and shall pronounce a judgment.
8. The rules stipulated by Chapter 26 and

Section 535. Original section/article: 198. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall not apply when hearing a case in a simplified (written) procedure.

Section 536. Original section/article: 267-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judgment in a case heard by way of simplified (written) proceedings
1. For a case heard by way of simplified (written) proceedings, the court shall deliver a judgment consisting of an introductory and operative parts. A copy of the court's judgment shall be forwarded to the parties using communication means ensuring a record of its receipt, or shall be issued within three business days from the date the judgment is rendered.
Upon a party's written request before the judgment enters into legal force, or on its own initiative, the court shall render a judgment consisting of an introductory, reasoning, and operative parts.
2. The defendant may file an application to the court that delivered the decision in summary (written) proceedings to set aside that decision within five working days of receiving a copy of the court's judgment. The application shall be filed if the defendant has not been duly notified of the receipt of the lawsuit and its hearing in simplified (written) proceedings and has been unable to provide a response, as well as evidence that may affect the content of the judgment.
3. An application to set aside a judgment shall be heard by the court within ten business days of its receipt by the court.
If there are all the grounds specified in part two of this article, the court shall pronounce a ruling to revoke the judgment with a resumption of proceedings on the merits, and it shall not be subject to appeal.
If the court refuses to revoke the judgment, it shall issue a ruling denying the application.
The judge, along with a refusal to set aside the judgment, must issue to the parties a judgment consisting of an introductory, reasoning, and operative parts, if no such judgment has been issued earlier.
4. An appeal may be filed against the judgment, an appeal petition may be brought by the prosecutor upon expiration of the time limit for filing an application to set aside the judgment, or, if an application has been filed, within one month after the court has issued its ruling denying the application.
5. In the simplified (written) procedure, proceedings may be terminated, or an application may be abandoned on the grounds set forth in Articles 277 and 279 of this Code, according to the documents filed by the parties without summoning the parties.
Chapter 22. COURT RULING

Section 537. Original section/article: 268. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The court ruling and the procedure for its delivery 
1. The act of the court, which does not determine the case on the merits, shall be delivered in the form of a determination.
2. The determination shall be delivered by the court in the form of an independent procedural document in the procedure prescribed by the

Section 538. Original section/article: 223. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. When determining simple issues, the court shall make a determination without leaving the courtroom. The content of the definition shall be specified in the record of the court session.
4. The definition or its disposal part shall be announced immediately after the issuance. The determination in the final form shall be made no later than in five business days after the announcement of its disposal part.

Section 539. Original section/article: 269. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of the ruling 
1. The ruling shall contain:
1) date and place of determination delivery;
2) name of the court that issued the ruling, the names and initials of the judge and the secretary of the court session;
3) persons participating in the case, the subject of the dispute or the claim;
4) issue on which the determination is delivered;
5) rationale for the court's findings and the reference to the laws by which the court was guided;
6) procedural decision of the court;
7) procedure and term of appeal of the determination if it is subjected to the appeal.
2. The determination delivered by the court in the courtroom shall contain the information listed in the subparagraphs 4), 5) and 6) of the first part of this Article.
Footnote.

Section 540. Original section/article: 269. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 541. Original section/article: 270. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Separate rulings of the court 
1. In identifying cases of violation of the law, the court shall have the right to deliver and send a special ruling, and if violations are committed by the state bodies, officials and civil servants, the court shall deliver and send the special ruling to the relevant organizations, officials or other persons performing managerial functions, who are obliged to report on the measures taken by them within a month.
2. Failure to report on the measures taken shall entail administrative liability of persons to whom the special ruling is addressed for contempt of the court in accordance with the requirements of the Articles 119 and 120 of this Code. The imposition of an administrative penalty does not relieve the persons concerned of the obligation to report on the measures taken by the special ruling of the court.
3. If during the consideration of the case the court shall find in the actions of the party, other participants in the process, an official or other person the signs of a criminal offense, the court shall inform the prosecutor.
4. The private petition shall be filed against the special ruling by the persons whose interests it concern, in the procedure provided by the part four of the

Section 542. Original section/article: 429. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and the procedural request brought by the prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 543. Original section/article: 270. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 544. Original section/article: 271. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sending the copies of the court ruling to the persons participating in the case 
Copies of the court ruling on suspension or termination of proceedings on the case or on leaving the application without consideration shall be sent to the parties and other participants of the case who did not appear at the court session any later than three working days from the date of issuance of the final ruling using means of communication that provide fixation of its receipt.
Footnote.

Section 545. Original section/article: 271. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 23. SUSPENSION OF CASE PROCEEDINGS

Section 546. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obligation of the court to suspend the proceedings 
1. The court shall be obliged to suspend in the following cases:
1) the death of a citizen or reorganization, liquidation of a legal entity, if the disputed legal relationship permits succession;
2) the recognition of a citizen as incapable in accordance with the procedure established by the law;
3) the defendant’s presence in the part of the Armed Forces participating in the hostilities, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the request of the plaintiff in the part of the Armed Forces participating in the fighting, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) the impossibility of considering this case until the resolution of another case being considered in civil, criminal, administrative proceedings, as well as in proceedings on cases of administrative offences;
5) if he considers that the law or other regulatory legal act to be applied in this case infringes the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution, and will appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a recommendation on recognition of this act unconstitutional, as well as if it becomes known that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the initiative of another court the constitutionality of the regulatory legal act to be applied in this case is being checked;
6) the request to the court of a foreign state to provide legal assistance;
7) the parties sign a mediation agreement with the mediator. The parties shall inform the court by the joint written notice when extending the period of mediation;
8) receipts in a case involving a dispute about a child, a copy of a court ruling on acceptance of proceedings filed on the basis of an international agreement ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, an application on the return of a child illegally transferred to the Republic of Kazakhstan or retained in the Republic of Kazakhstan access rights if the child has not reached the age when the specified international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, is not applicable to this child.
Footnote.

Section 547. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 548. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Right of the court to suspend proceedings 
The court may, upon request of the persons participating in the case, or on its own initiative, suspend proceedings in the cases of:
1) of the party’s being in the military service on conscription in the armed services, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan or attraction of it for performance of other state duty;
1-1) force majeure temporarily preventing further proceedings in the case.
Acts of force majeure temporarily preventing further proceedings in a case shall be understood to mean the proclamation of a state of emergency, the threat or occurrence of an emergency of a natural or man-made nature;
2) finding the party on a business trip exceeding the term of consideration of the case, except for cases of participation in the case of representatives of legal entities;
3) finding the parties in a medical institution for inpatient treatment with the exception of cases of participation in the case of representatives of a legal entity;
4) requests to the court to provide legal assistance in the case under consideration;
5) the purpose of inspection by the body performing functions on guardianship or guardianship, living conditions of adoptive parents in cases of adoption;
6) the appointment of the expertise by the court;
7) conducting the mediation in court or conducting a participative procedure;
8) the search of the defendant and (or) the child in the cases provided in the

Section 549. Original section/article: 133. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 550. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be entered into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 551. Original section/article: 274. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms of suspension of proceedings 
Proceedings shall suspend:
1) in the cases provided in the subparagraphs 1) and 2) of the

Section 552. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, until the successor of the dismissed person is determined or the guardian is appointed as the incompetent person;
1-1) in the event specified in the first paragraph of sub-paragraph 1-1) of

Section 553. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code - until the end of the force majeure;
2) in the cases provided by the subparagraph 3) of the

Section 554. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and the subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 5), 6) and 8) of the

Section 555. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, until the termination of the party’s suspend in the armed service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, until the end of the state responsibility of the party, before returning from a business trip, discharge from a medical institution or termination of the disease, before the expert’s opinion is presented to the court or the body responsible for guardianship and custody is found, until the defendant is sought;
3) in the cases provided by the subparagraph 4) of the

Section 556. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, before the entry into force of a decision, sentence or court order;
4) in the cases provided for by subparagraph 5) of

Section 557. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code – before the entry into force of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) in the cases provided by the subparagraph 6) of the

Section 558. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and the subparagraph 4) of the

Section 559. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, until the court shall fulfill the order for rendering legal assistance;
6) in the cases provided by the subparagraph 7) of the

Section 560. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and the subparagraph 7) of the

Section 561. Original section/article: 273. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, until the termination of the mediation and participative procedure;
7) before the entry into force of a court decision on the case of returning a child illegally transferred to the Republic of Kazakhstan or held in the Republic of Kazakhstan or on the exercise of rights of access for a child on the basis of an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan or a decision to terminate the proceedings on this case or a decision on the court leaving the application specified in the subparagraph 8) of the

Section 562. Original section/article: 272. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, without consideration.
Footnote.

Section 563. Original section/article: 274. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 564. Original section/article: 275. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The appeal, bringing the procedural request by the prosecutor to the court to suspend the proceedings 
The private appeal shall be filed against the court's decision to suspend the proceedings in the cases provided by this Code and the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, the decision of which is final.
Footnote.

Section 565. Original section/article: 275. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
with the edition of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 566. Original section/article: 276. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Resumption of proceedings 
The proceedings shall be resumed after the elimination of the circumstances that caused its suspension, upon the request of the persons participating in the case or on the initiative of the court. The court shall notify the persons participating in the case according to the general rules of civil procedure when resuming proceedings.
The grounds for the resumption of proceedings on the case shall be announced by the presiding judge and shall be reflected in the protocol of the court session.
Footnote.

Section 567. Original section/article: 276. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 24. TERMINATION OF CASE PROCEEDINGS

Section 568. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds for termination of proceedings 
The court shall terminate the proceedings if:
1) the case is not subjected to review in civil proceedings;
2) there is entered into legal force, delivered in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds a court decision or a court decision to discontinue the proceedings in connection with the plaintiff’s refusal of the claim or approval of the civil agreement of the parties, agreement of the parties on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the procedure of the participative procedure;
3) there is an arbitral award adopted in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds;
4) the court accepted the plaintiff’s refusal of the claim;
5) the parties entered into the civil agreement and it was approved by the court;
6) the parties entered into an agreement on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) in the procedure of mediation, an agreement on the settlement of a dispute in the procedure of the participative procedure and they were approved by the court;
7) after the death of a citizen who is one of the parties to the case, the disputed legal relationship does not allow succession;
8) the organization acting as a party in the case has been liquidated with the termination of its activities and the absence of successors;
9) it is established that a foreign state has an immunity from suit.

Section 569. Original section/article: 278. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure and consequences of termination of the proceedings 
1. The proceedings shall be terminated by the court ruling.
2. In the event of termination of the proceedings, a secondary appeal to the court in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds shall not be allowed.
3. The court in the definition indicates the return of the state duty terminating the proceedings on the grounds provided in the subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 5) and 6) of the

Section 570. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, in accordance with the requirements of the

Section 571. Original section/article: 107. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
The court, terminating the proceedings, shall cancel the measures taken to secure the injunctive relief.
4. The private petition shall be filed against the court's decision to terminate the proceedings in the case, and the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor in the cases and in the procedure provided by this Code.
Footnote.

Section 572. Original section/article: 278. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 25. CONSIDERATION OF PETITION TO BE DECLINED

Section 573. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The basis for consideration of petition to be declined 
The court shall consider the petition to be declined if:
1) the plaintiff has not complied with the procedure for the pre-trial settlement of the dispute established by the law for this category of cases or stipulated by the contract and the possibility of applying this procedure has not been lost;
2) the petition is filed by an incompetent person;
3) the statement of claim shall be signed or filed by a citizen who does not have the authority to sign or present it if the plaintiff did not support the stated demand;
4) there is a previously initiated case on a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same grounds in the proceedings of this or another court or arbitration;
5) between the parties, in accordance with the law, an agreement has been concluded on the transfer of this dispute to arbitration or the court of the Astana International Financial Center, unless otherwise provided by law;
6) the plaintiff, who did not ask for the proceedings in his absence, did not appear in the court on the secondary summon;
7) the person in whose interests the case was initiated did not support the stated requirement;
8) the plaintiff submitted an application for the return of the claim;
9) an application for the restoration of rights to lost order securities shall be filed within three months from the date of publication;
10) the application for recognition of the right of communal ownership of an immovable thing submitted earlier than the time established by the law or in violation of the procedures for fixing immovable property as provided by the law as ownerless;
11) the state duty has not been paid in accordance with the procedure established by the part three of the

Section 574. Original section/article: 105. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and the part two of the

Section 575. Original section/article: 106. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
12) information is not provided on the publication in the mass media on cases of special proceedings provided for by Chapter 34 of this Code;
13) the existence of a dispute on the law subordinated to the court subjected to consideration in the litigation, has been established when considering a case in a special proceeding.
Footnote.

Section 576. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 19.09.2025, № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 577. Original section/article: 280. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The procedure and consequences of consideration of petition to be declined 
1. The proceedings in cases of abandonment of the petition without consideration ends with the ruling of the court. In this ruling the court shall be obliged to specify how to eliminate listed in the subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 9) and 10) the Articles 279 of this Code circumstances preventing consideration of the case. In the ruling the court specifies about the return of the state duty and about cancellation of taken measures for providing the claim considering the petition to be declined on the bases provided by the subparagraphs 1), 2) and 5) of the

Section 578. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. The court’s decision to leave the petition without consideration shall be submitted to the private petition; the procedural request shall be brought by the prosecutor to the court of appeal, whose decision is final.
3. After the elimination of the circumstances which served as the basis for consideration the application to be declined, the interested person shall have the right to appeal again to the court with the petition in the general order.
The copy of the ruling shall be sent or handed over to the plaintiff together with the materials attached to the petition.
Footnote.

Section 579. Original section/article: 280. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 26. MINUTES

Section 580. Original section/article: 281. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obligation to keep a minute 
1. On each court session of the court of the first instance, as well as on each procedural action performed outside the session, except for the cases provided for by this Code, a protocol shall be drawn up in writing or a short protocol shall be drawn up when audio or video recording of the court session is made.
If all the participants of the case fail to appear at the court session, or if the court session is held without examining new evidence, the question of keeping the protocol of the court session shall be resolved by the judge.
2. When preparing a case for trial in a court of the first instance, a protocol shall be kept at the request of a party or the initiative of the court, except for cases when a decision on the merits of the dispute is made at this stage.
3. The record keeping at the court of appeal is not necessary, except for cases when the case is considered by the court of appeal according to the rules of the court of the first instance, as well as in the case of research of new evidence according to the rules provided by the second part of the

Section 581. Original section/article: 413. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and the part four of the

Section 582. Original section/article: 420. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
4. No protocol is recorded in the court of cassation instance, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote.

Section 583. Original section/article: 281. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 584. Original section/article: 282. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of a minute 
1. The record of the court session or a separate procedural act committed outside the session shall reflect all the essential circumstances of the proceedings of the case or the commission of a separate procedural act.
2. The record shall indicate:
1) the year, month, day and place of the court session;
2) the time of the beginning and end of the court session;
3) the name of the court considering the case, the names and initials of the judge, the court secretary;
4) the name of the case;
5) the information on the use of transcription by the court and an indication of the reasons for the impossibility of conducting an audio or video recording of the process;
5-1) information on the use of videoconferencing systems and (or) other technical means, as well as on filming and photography;
6) the information on the attendance of persons participating in the case in the case, representatives, witnesses, experts, specialists, interpreter;
7) the information on clarification to the persons participating in the case in the case, the representatives, as well as the interpreter, experts and specialists on their procedural rights and obligations;
8) the orders of the chairperson and the ruling delivered in the courtroom;
9) the applications, procedural requests and explanations of the persons participating in the case and their representatives;
10) the oral testimony of witnesses, explanations of experts and specialists;
11) the information about the announcement and the results of the search of the evidence and documents, listening to the audio recordings and watching videos, film materials;
12) the information on the opinion of state bodies and local self-government bodies participating in the case on the basis of the

Section 585. Original section/article: 56. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
13) the content of the questions and answers that took place in the courtroom;
13-1) information on the break in the court session and the date of the new court session if the case is adjourned;
14) the content of the oral arguments and replies;
15) the brief conclusion of the prosecutor who participated in the case on the basis of the

Section 586. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
16) information on the announcement of the decision and clarification of the legal grounds and consequences of its adoption, on the deadline for its preparation in the final form, clarification of the procedure and deadline for appealing;
17) information on explaining to the participants of the case their rights to familiarize themselves with the protocol of the court session and audio and video recordings of the court session and to submit comments on them;
18) the date of the record in the final form.
3. The condensed minutes shall be drawn up in the case of recording the proceedings of the case using the means of audio and video.
4. The content of the summary protocol shall comply with the requirements specified in subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), 4), 6), 13-1), 16) and 18) of the second part of this Article, it shall also indicate the use of means by the court audio, video recording, name of the file containing audio, video recording.
The carrier of the audio and video recording and the summary protocol shall be attached to the case.
At the request of the participants of the case and their representatives, the court shall submit a copy of the audio recording and a summary protocol or protocol of the court session.
In this case, the citizen shall be warned about the responsibility for violation of the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on personal data and their protection and about the use of the received record for the purposes provided for in part five of this Article.
In cases where the case is considered in a closed court session, the participants of the case shall not be provided with an audio, video recording and protocol of the court session, they shall be provided with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the audio, video recording and protocol of the court session in court.
5. The audio and video records of the court sessions shall be used only for the purposes of legal proceedings to accurately record the course of judicial proceedings, as well as to establish factual data in civil, criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings or in a disciplinary proceeding.
The procedure for the technical use of audio and video recording equipment, ensuring the recording of the course of the court session, storage and destruction of audio and video recordings, as well as the procedure for access to audio and video recordings shall be determined by the authorized state body in the field of judicial administration, taking into account the requirements of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 587. Original section/article: 282. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 588. Original section/article: 283. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Drawing up a minute 
1. The record of the court session or a separate procedural action shall be drawn up by the secretary of the court session or the condensed minutes shall be kept when keeping audio and video records of the court session.
A short protocol for complex cases may be accompanied by a text transcript of the audio recording obtained by automatic text recognition.
2. The record, short record shall be made by the computer, typewritten or handwritten methods.
3. The persons participating in the case and the representatives shall have the right to procedural request for the announcement of any part of the record, for recording in the record information about the circumstances which they consider essential for the case.
4. The record shall be made and signed no later than in three business days after the end of the court session and the record on a separate procedural action is no later than the next day after its completion. The court record shall be prepared and signed no later than ten business days after the end of the court session for the complex cases.
5. The record shall be signed by the chairperson and the secretary. All changes, amendments, additions shall be specified in the record and certified by the signatures of mentioned above persons.
The electronic protocol and audio, video recording, text transcript of the audio recording attached to the short protocol shall be certified by the electronic digital signature of the secretary, making any changes to them shall be prohibited.
6. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
7. If the persons participating in the case in the case, their explanations, statements, petitions, conclusions, stated orally, were additionally stated in written form, the court shall attach written documents to the case without reflecting their full contents in the record.
Footnote.

Section 589. Original section/article: 283. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 590. Original section/article: 284. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The comments on the record, the condensed minutes, the content of audio, video records 
The persons, who participate in the case, or their representatives, shall have the right to familiarize themselves with the record, the condensed minutes, the content of the audio and video recordings of the court session within five business days from the date of their production and signing. These persons shall be entitled to submit comments on the record, condensed minutes, the content of audio and video recordings in written form or in the form of an electronic document certified by an electronic digital signature, indicating the incompleteness of the proceedings and recording their results within three business days after familiarization.

Section 591. Original section/article: 285. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of comments on the record, the condensed minutes, the content of audio, video records 
1. Comments on the protocol, short protocol, the content of audio and video recordings shall be considered by the chairperson.
2. The need to consider remarks at a court session with notification of the citizens participating in the consideration of the case shall be determined by the chairperson. The absence of the citizens participating in the consideration of the case shall not be an obstacle to the consideration of comments on the protocol, summary protocol, and the content of the audio and video recording.
Based on the results of consideration of the comments, the chairman shall certify their correctness by his/her resolution and signature, or issue a ruling on their complete or partial rejection. All comments shall be attached to the case.
3. A court ruling issued based on the results of consideration of comments is not subject to appeal and revision at the request of the prosecutor. Arguments about disagreement with the results of consideration of the comments may be included in the appeal, the prosecutor's petition.
4. The comments on the record, the condensed minutes, the content of the audio, video shall be reviewed within five business days from the date of their submission.
5. If the chairperson shall not consider the comments on the record, the condensed minutes, the content of the audio and video recordings for valid reasons, they shall be attached to the case file.
Footnote.

Section 592. Original section/article: 285. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
SUB-

Section 593. Original section/article: 3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
SPECIAL ACTION PROCEEDING Chapter 27. Proceeding on applications on protection of citizens' electoral rights and public associations, participating in elections and Republican referenda
Footnote. Chapter 27 is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).
Chapter 28. PROCEEDING ON APPLICATIONS FOR APPEALING OF THE DECISION, ACTIONS (INACTION) OF LOCAL ENFORCEMENT BODIES VIOLATING THE CITIZENS’ RIGHTS TO PARTICIPATE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AS A JUROR 
Footnote. Chapter 28 is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).
Chapter 29. PROCEEDINGS ON AVOIDANCE OF DECISION S AND ACTIONS (INACTION) OF THE GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES, LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY, PUBLIC ASSOCIATIONS, ORGANIZATIONS, PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND CIVIL OFFICERS
Footnote. Chapter 29 is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).
Chapter 30. PROCEEDINGS IN CASE OF LITIGATION OF THE LEGALISM OF REGULATORY LAW ACT
Footnote. Chapter 30 is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Chapter 30-1. Proceedings on cases of challenging the actions (inaction) of the authorized body for asset recovery
Footnote. Subsection 3 was supplemented by Chapter 30-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 594. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submitting an application 
1. In cases provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state", the person who owns the asset has the right to challenge the actions (inaction) of the authorized body for the return of assets.
The person who owns the asset may apply to the court after observing the pre-trial dispute settlement procedure established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state".
2. The application may be submitted within ten working days from the date of the action (inaction) of the authorized body for the return of assets.
3. The application is submitted to the court according to the rules of jurisdiction established by Chapter 3 of this Code.
4. The application must be accompanied by evidence indicating a violation of the right of the person who is the owner of the asset.

Section 595. Original section/article: 301-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of the application 
1. An application received within the time limits established by

Section 596. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code must be considered within twenty working days.
2. The application is considered by the court with the participation of the applicant and a representative of the authorized body for asset recovery.
The failure of these persons to appear in court, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, is not an obstacle to the consideration and resolution of the case.

Section 597. Original section/article: 301-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The court's decision on the application and its execution 
1. A court decision shall be rendered in accordance with the requirements of

Section 598. Original section/article: 228. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. An appeal may be filed against a court decision, an appeal petition may be brought within three working days from the date of delivery of a copy of the decision.
SUBSECTION 4. SPECIAL PROCEEDING Chapter 31. GENERAL POSITIONS

Section 599. Original section/article: 302. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Special proceedings cases considered by the court 
1. The cases considered by the court in the procedure of special proceedings shall include the following cases:
1) on the establishment of facts of legal significance;
2) on applications for the adoption of a child;
3) on recognizing a citizen as missing and declaring a citizen dead;
4) on limiting the capacity of a citizen, on recognizing a citizen as incapable, on limiting or depriving a minor aged fourteen to eighteen years with the right to independently manage the income;
5) to declare a minor child fully capable (emancipation);
6) on sending minors to special education organizations or education organizations with a special regime of detention;
7) on compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), including those associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care;
8) on sending a citizen for compulsory treatment for tuberculosis;
9) on restructuring financial organizations and organizations that are members of a banking conglomerate as a parent organization and are not financial organizations;
10) on the introduction, early completion and extension of the term of temporary management of the grain-receiving enterprise;
11) on restoration of solvency, judicial bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as debt restructuring, rehabilitation, bankruptcy, liquidation without initiation of bankruptcy proceedings of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities;
12) on recognition of choses as ownerless and recognition of the right of communal ownership of immovable property;
13) excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall come into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
14) on the petitions about notarial actions or refusal to commit them;
15) on the restoration of rights to lost order securities (procedure to declare lost documents void);
16) on the applications for recognizing an organization engaged in extremism or terrorist activity on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) another state, extremist or terrorist, including the establishment of a change in its name, as well as recognition of information materials imported, published, manufactured and (or) spread on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan as extremist or terrorist;
17) according to statements on the recognition of online casinos, products of foreign mass media distributed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan containing information contrary to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as illegal;
18) on the applications for the deportation of an alien or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan for violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
19) on reinstatement of lost court or enforcement proceedings.
2. The law shall also provide the consideration of other cases in the order of special proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 600. Original section/article: 302. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 290-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall come into effect from 01.01.2022); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.09.2025, № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall come into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 601. Original section/article: 303. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The preparation of the case for the judicial examination 
In accordance provided by the

Section 602. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, with the features established by the Chapter 31 of this Code, the judge shall prepare the case for the court proceedings within ten business days from the date of acceptance of the application to the court. The extension of this period shall not be allowed.

Section 603. Original section/article: 304. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Special proceedings case consideration 
1. The cases of special proceedings shall be considered by the courts according to the rules of suit proceedings with the features established by the Chapters 31-49 of this Code. The court shall consider cases of special proceedings with the participation of the applicant and interested persons.
2. If the application or consideration of the case in the special proceedings established the existence of a dispute on the right, subordinated to the court, the court shall make a ruling on the abandonment of the application without consideration that explains the parties and interested persons their right to appeal to the court in the proceedings.
Chapter 32. Regarding the discovery of legally significant facts

Section 604. Original section/article: 305. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The cases regarding the discovery of legally significant facts 
1. The court establishes the facts depend on the emergence, change or termination of personal or property rights of citizens or legal entities.
2. The court shall consider the fact finding cases:
1) ancestral relationship of persons;
2) finding a dependent person;
3) registration of birth, adoption, marriage, divorce and death;
4) recognition of paternity;
5) accessory of the documents of title (with the exception of military documents, passport, identity card and certificates issued by the civil registration authorities) to the person whose surname, first name, patronymics listed in the document do not match the surname, first name, patronymics of the person or identity card or birth certificate;
6) the presence of documents confirming the ownership, use and (or) disposal of real estate objects, if the applicant had a title deed of ownership of the property, but it has been lost and this fact shall not be established out of court;
7) accident, if it is impossible to confirm in a different order;
8) the death of a person at a certain time under certain circumstances in the event of the failure of the civil registration authorities to register the death;
9) acceptance of the inheritance and place of opening of the inheritance, if the person who performs notarial actions cannot issue the certificate of inheritance to the applicant due to the lack or insufficiency of the relevant documents necessary to confirm the fact of taking possession of the estate.
3. The court shall establish other facts of legal significance, unless a different procedure for their establishment is provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 605. Original section/article: 306. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conditions necessary for the cases regarding the discovery of legally significant facts 
The court shall discover legally significant facts only if it is impossible for the applicant to receive appropriate documents certifying these facts in a different order or if it is impossible to recover the lost documents.

Section 606. Original section/article: 307. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing in the application 
The application for regarding a fact of legal significance shall be filed with the court at the place of residence of the applicant, except for the fact that there are documents confirming the ownership, use and (or) disposal of immovable property that shall be filed with the court at the location of the immovable property.

Section 607. Original section/article: 308. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Proceedings in the application 
The application shall specify the purpose for the applicant that shall establish this fact, as well as provide evidence confirming the impossibility of obtaining the appropriate documents by the applicant or the impossibility of restoring the lost documents.

Section 608. Original section/article: 309. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The court decision on the application 
The court's decision on the regarding of a fact of legal significance shall be the basis for the state registration of the relevant right and the issuance of the relevant documents, if such right is subjected to the registration, without replacing the documents issued by these bodies.
Chapter 33. PROCEEDINGS FOR APPLICATION FOR ADOPTION OF A CHILD

Section 609. Original section/article: 310. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing in the application 
The application for the adoption (hereinafter-adoption) of a minor child shall be submitted by citizens wishing to adopt a child to the court at the place of residence (location) of the child according to the rules of jurisdiction established by the Chapter 3 of this Code.

Section 610. Original section/article: 311. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of application 
The application for the adoption of a child shall include:
1) the surname, first name and patronymics (if it is indicated in the document proving the identity) of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent), their place of residence;
2) the surname, first name and patronymics (if it is indicated in the identity document) and the date of birth of the child to be adopted, his/her place of residence (location), information about the parents of the child to be adopted, his/her brothers and sisters;
3) the circumstances justifying the request of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) for the adoption of the child and the evidence confirming these circumstances;
4) the request to change the surname, first name, and patronymics (if it is indicated in the identity document) of the child to be adopted, the date of birth, the place of birth of the child to be adopted, the record on the adopters (adopter) in the birth record of the child as the parents (parent) if desired, the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) shall make the appropriate changes to the birth record of the child if desired.

Section 611. Original section/article: 312. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Documents attached to the application for adoption 
The following documents shall be attached to the application for adoption:
1) the copy of the marriage certificate of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) - when the child is adopted by the persons (person) who are married;
2) in case of adoption of a child by one of the spouses - the consent of the other spouse or a document confirming that the spouses have terminated the family relationship. If it is not possible to add the relevant document to the application, the application shall indicate the evidence confirming these facts;
2-1) when adopting a child in respect of whom paternity has been established by the applicant's spouse, - a conclusion of a molecular genetic examination confirming paternity in respect of the adopted child
3) the medical report on the health status of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent);
4) the certificate of employment and position or other income document;
5) the document confirming the right to use a dwelling or the right of ownership of a dwelling;
6) other documents stipulated by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 612. Original section/article: 312. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 613. Original section/article: 313. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation of the case for the judicial examination 
1. The judge shall oblige the bodies in charge of the Child Protective Service at the place of residence or location of the child to be adopted to submit to the court permission to transfer to the adoption on the basis of the commission's conclusion on the reasonableness and relevance of the adoption to the child when preparing the case for the judicial examination.
2. The following documents shall be attached to the conclusion of the Child Protective Service:
1) the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) housing inspection report drawn up by the body performing the functions of the Child Protective Service at the place of residence or location of the child to be adopted or at the place of residence of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent);
2) the birth certificate of the adopted child;
3) the medical report on the state of health, on the physical and mental development of the adopted child;
4) the consent of the adopted child who has reached the age of ten years to the adoption, as well as possible changes in his name, patronymics, surname and record of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) as his parents (except if such consent is not required under the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan);
5) the consent to the adoption of the child by parents who are under the age of sixteen, as well as the consent of their legal representatives and in the absence of legal representatives, the consent of the body performing the Child Protective Service, except as provided for in the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Marriage and Family ";
6) consent to the adoption of the child by his/her guardian or curator, foster career or the head of an educational organization, medical and other organizations where the child is left without parental care;
7) when adopting a child by the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan permanently residing outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, by foreigners, a document confirming the fact that they are centrally registered in the authorized body in the field of children's rights, as well as documents confirming the implementation of the rights of primary adoption by the authorized body in the field of children's rights this child by relatives regardless of their citizenship and place of residence or by the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. The court shall request information on orphans, children left without parental care, who are in primary, regional, centralized accounting, from the bodies that perform Child Protective Service on the basis of a written request.
4. The court, if necessary, shall also require other documents.

Section 614. Original section/article: 314. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of application 
The court shall consider cases of adoption of a child with the obligatory participation of the adoptive parents (adoptive parent), representatives of the body performing the functions of the Child Protective Service. 
If necessary, the court shall involve the parents (parent) or other legal representatives of the adopted child, his relatives and other interested persons, as well as the child who has reached the age of ten to participate in the case. 
The court shall consider cases of adoption of a child in a closed court session.
Footnote.

Section 615. Original section/article: 314. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 91-VI dated 11.07.2017 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 616. Original section/article: 315. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application 
The court shall decide to satisfy the application or to refuse to satisfy it in full or in part to meet the request of adoptive parents (adoptive parent) to record them as parents (parent) of the child in the act record of his birth, as well as to change the date and place of birth of the child considering the application for adoption of the child.
The mutual rights and obligations of adoptive parents (adoptive parent) and adopted child shall arise from the date of entry into force of the court decision when satisfying the application for adoption.
An extract from the court decision shall be sent to the body that carries out state registration of acts of civil status, at the place where the decision was made, as well as to the body that performs the functions of guardianship or guardianship, at the place where the decision was made, within three working days from the date the decision comes into force.
Footnote.

Section 617. Original section/article: 315. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 618. Original section/article: 316. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The revocation of adoption 
The consideration and resolution of the cases on the revocation of adoption shall be carried out according to the rules of the suite proceedings.
Chapter 34. PROCEEDING ON ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF A PERSON TO BE MISSING OR DEAD

Section 619. Original section/article: 317. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of an application 
1. 1. An application on acknowledgement of a person to be missing or declaring a citizen to be dead shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence of a plaintiff or at the last known place of residence of the missing person.
2. The case on acknowledgement of a person to be missing or declaring a citizen to be dead may be initiated at the request of his/her family, prosecutor, public associations, guardianship authorities and other interested persons

Section 620. Original section/article: 318. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of the application 
The application shall specify purpose of declaring the person to be missing or dead, and shall have facts, confirming the missing of a citizen, or circumstances threatened to the missing person with death or giving reasons to believe that his/her death was caused by a specific accident. As for military servants and other people, who went missing in connection with military operations, the application shall state the day of ending of military actions.

Section 621. Original section/article: 319. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation of a case for proceedings 
1. When preparing the case for proceedings the judge finds, who can give information about the missing person and sends requests to the relevant organizations at the last known place of residence and place of work of the missing person.
2. The judge, after accepting of the application, makes a decision on publication of a notification on initiation of a case in local newspaper at the expense of the plaintiff. The publication shall contain:
1) name of the court, received the application on acknowledgement of a person to be missing or dead;
2) name of the applicant and his/her place of residence (location, if the application came from legal entities);
3) surname, first name, patronymic, place of birth and the last work of the missing person;
4) offer to individuals, possessing information about location of the missing person to inform the court about it within three months from the date of publication.
3. After accepting the application, the judge may offer the guardianship authority to appoint a guardian for protection and management of property of the missing person.

Section 622. Original section/article: 320. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mandatory participation of a prosecutor 
Footnote.

Section 623. Original section/article: 320. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
has been excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 624. Original section/article: 321. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of the decision of the court 
1. The decision of the court, which declares the citizen to be missing, shall be the ground for appointment of a guardianship and custody for the property at the location of the property of the missing person.
2. The decision of the court, which declares the citizen to be dead, shall be the ground for making records on citizen's death in the civil status acts by the bodies of civil status acts.
Inheritance in respect of the property of a citizen declared dead shall be considered to be opened since the court decision enters into legal force.

Section 625. Original section/article: 322. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of appearance or discovery of location of the citizen acknowledged being missing or dead 
In case of the appearance or discovery of location of the citizen acknowledged to be missing or dead, the court’s new decision shall cancel the earlier rendered decision. This decision shall be the ground to remove trusteeship from the property and cancellation of records about his/her death in the book of acts of civil status 2. Cancellation of a court decision on acknowledgement of a citizen as missing or declaring him as dead is the ground for the restoration of the property rights of the said persons.
Chapter 35. PROCEEDING ON CASES OF CITIZEN INCAPACITATIONY, ON ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF A CITIZEN TO BE INCAPACITATED, ON LIMITATION OR DEPRIVING OF THE MINOR AGED BETWEEN FOURTEEN AND EIGHTEEN YEARS OLD OF THE RIGHT TO DISPOSE HIS INCOMES INDEPENDENTLY

Section 626. Original section/article: 323. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application procedure 
1. A case on recognizing a citizen with limited legal capacity due to the abuse of gambling, betting, alcohol or narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues may be initiated at the request of his/her family members, close relatives, regardless of their joint residence, the prosecutor, the body exercising the functions under guardianship or guardianship.
2. Case of the recognition of a citizen as disabled due to a mental illness or mental disorder, dementia or another morbid state of mind may be initiated in court at the request of family members, close relatives, regardless of their joint residence, prosecutor, body responsible for guardianship or trusteeship, psychiatric (psycho-neurological) medical institution.
3. Case on limitation or depriving a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income may be initiated on the basis of an application by parents, adoptive parents, custodian or guardianship or trusteeship body, or prosecutor.
4. Case of recognition a citizen partially incapacitated, incapacitated or depriving a minor aged fourteen to eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income is initiated in order to protect both the interests of the partially incapacitated, incapacitated by establishing (assignment) of guardianship, and the persons mentioned in parts first and second of this article.
5. Application for acknowledgement of a citizen as partially incapacitated, incapacitated or depriving a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence of the person, and in case if the person is placed into a psychiatric (psycho-neurological) medical institution, it shall be submitted at the location of this institution.
Footnote.

Section 627. Original section/article: 323. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2020 № 356-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 628. Original section/article: 324. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application content 
1. An application for recognizing a citizen as having limited legal capacity shall contain circumstances indicating that a citizen who abuses gambling, betting, alcohol or narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, puts his/her family in a difficult financial situation.
2. The application on the recognition of a citizen as incapacitated shall state the circumstances indicating that the person has a mental illness or mental disorder, dementia or other morbid mental state, as a result of which a person cannot understand the actual nature and significance of his actions or direct them.
3. The application on the limitation or deprivation of a minor aged between fourteen to eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income, scholarship or other income shall state the circumstances indicating the clearly unreasonable disposal of the minor by his earnings, scholarship or other income.
Footnote.

Section 629. Original section/article: 324. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2020 № 356-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 630. Original section/article: 325. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation of a case for trial 
1. In preparing a case for trial, the judge shall appoint an official lawyer to represent and protect the interests of the citizen in the case proceedings.
An official lawyer has the authority of a legal representative. In accordance with the law, legal assistance of such an attorney is provided free of charge at the expense of budget funds.
2. If there is sufficient data on a mental illness or mental disorder, dementia, or other morbid state of mind of a citizen, the court shall appoint a forensic psychiatric examination to determine his mental state.
If the person, in respect of whom the case of declaring him in capacitated explicitly evaded a forensic psychiatric examination, the court in a court session with the participation of a psychiatrist can make a decision on the compulsory referral of a citizen to a forensic psychiatric examination.
3. In the cases provided for in part two of this article, the body (person) that appointed the forensic examination is obliged to notify within twenty-four hours about the location of the person forcibly placed in the medical organization for conducting the forensic examination any adult members of his family, other relatives or close persons, and in the absence thereof, Internal Affairs Authority at the place of residence of the said person.
Footnote.

Section 631. Original section/article: 325. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.02.2017 № 45-VI (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 632. Original section/article: 326. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application 
1. Application for recognition of a citizen as partially incapacitated, incapacitated or depriving a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income, scholarship or other income shall be considered by the court with the participation of the citizen, an applicant, a representative of the body performing guardianship functions or guardianship.
The citizen in respect of whom a case on recognition him incapacitated is being considered shall be summoned to a court session if his presence at the court session does not create a danger to his life or health or to the lives or health of others. A person has the right to state his position personally or through representatives.
If personal participation of a citizen in a court on the case of recognition a person as incapacitated creates a danger to his life or health or to the lives or health of others, the case shall be considered by the court at the place of his location. The case may be considered in a medical organization that provides psychiatric care in inpatient conditions, or inpatient social services for people suffering from mental disorders, with the participation of the citizen.
2. When considering cases of this category, the applicant shall be exempt from payment of court costs. The court, having established that the person who filed the application, acted in bad faith in order to clearly unwarranted restriction or deprivation of the legal capacity of a citizen, shall expose him of all legal costs associated with the proceedings. 
Footnote.

Section 633. Original section/article: 326. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 634. Original section/article: 327. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision under the application 
1. The court passes a decision of refusal to satisfy the application, if it establishes the fact that there are no grounds for recognition a citizen as partially incapacitated or incapacitated, limitation or deprivation a minor aged between fourteen to eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income, scholarship or other incomes.
2. The decision of the court to limit the legal capacity of a citizen, as well as to limit or deprive a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income, scholarship or other incomes is the ground for appointing a trustee as the body performing guardianship or trusteeship functions.
3. A court decision on recognition a citizen as incapacitated is the ground for appointing a guardian as the body performing functions of guardianship or trusteeship.
4. The body that performs the functions of guardianship or trusteeship shall, within ten days, inform the court of the appointment of a partially incapacitated or incapacitated citizen of a trustee or guardian.
5. A citizen recognized as incapacitated or partially incapacitated is entitled to appeal against a court decision in the manner provided for by this Code.

Section 635. Original section/article: 328. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recognition of a citizen as capacitated

Section 636. Original section/article: 328. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acknowledgement of a citizen as legally capable 
1. In the cases provided for in the second paragraph of

Section 637. Original section/article: 22. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, the second paragraph of

Section 638. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the court, at the request of the citizen, a member of his family, a close relative, guardian, body performing the functions of guardianship, the psychiatric dispensary, shall pass a decision on the refusal to satisfy the restrictions on the legal capacity of a citizen, on the refusal to satisfy the limitations or the deprivation of a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years of the right to independently dispose his income, scholarship or and other incomes. On the basis of a court decision, the guardianship established over him shall be canceled.
2. In the cases provided for by paragraph three of

Section 639. Original section/article: 26. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the court at the request of a guardian, a psychiatric medical institution, a family member, a close relative, a prosecutor, a psychiatric (psycho-neurological) institution, the body that performs the functions of guardianship or trusteeship according to the conclusion of the forensic psychiatric examination shall pass a decision on the recognition of the recovered or having a significant improvement in the health of the person incapacitated. On the basis of a court decision, the guardianship established over the citizen shall be canceled.
Chapter 36. PROCEEDING ON ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF A MINOR FULLY CAPABLE (EMANSIPATION)

Section 640. Original section/article: 329. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application on declaring a minor fully capable 
1. A minor who has reached the age of sixteen years may apply to the court at his place of residence with an application for declaring him fully capacitated in the case provided for in

Section 641. Original section/article: 22-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. An application for declaring a minor fully capacitated is accepted by the court without the consent of the parents (one of the parents), the adoptive parents (adoptive parent) or the guardian to declare the minor fully capacitated.

Section 642. Original section/article: 330. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application for declaring a minor as fully capable 
An application for declaring a minor as fully capable shall be considered by a court with the participation of the applicant, parents (one of the parents), adoptive parents (adoptive parent), guardian, as well as a representative of the body exercising the functions of guardianship or patronage.
When preparing the case for trial, the judge shall decide on the appointment of an official representative – a lawyer to represent and protect the interests of a minor left without parental care in the process of an initiated case.
The official representative - a lawyer shall have the powers of a legal representative. 
Footnote.

Section 643. Original section/article: 330. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 644. Original section/article: 331. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application on declaring a minor fully capable 
1. The court, having considered in essence the application for declaring a minor fully capacitated, shall make a decision with which it satisfies or refuses the applicant's satisfaction.
2. If an application is satisfied, a minor who has attained the age of sixteen years shall be declared fully capacitated (emancipated) from the day the court decision on emancipation enters into legal force.
Chapter 37. PROCEEDING ON CASES OF SENDING MINORS TO SPECIAL EDUCATION ORGANIZATIONS OR EDUCATION ORGANIZATION WITH A SPECIAL REGIME OF DETENTION

Section 645. Original section/article: 332. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Placement a minor into a special education organization or education organization with a special regime of detention 
1. An application for placement a minor into a special education organization shall be submitted by the Agency for guardianship or custody, or by the Internal Affairs Agency, and in education organization with a special regime of detention - by the Internal Affairs Agency in the specialized interdistrict court for minors at the place of residence (location) of a child.
2. In the application for placement a minor into a special education organization or an education organization with a special regime of detention, circumstances shall be stated and documents shall be presented indicating that there are legal grounds for sending to a special education organization or an education organization with a special regime of detention and about the absence of a minor disease that prevents its maintenance and training in the specified education organization, as well as the decision of the Commission on Minors Affairs and Protection of their Rights.

Section 646. Original section/article: 333. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of the application on placement a minor into a special education organization or education organization with a special regime of detention 
1. A minor, his/her legal representatives, representatives of the body exercising the functions of guardianship or guardianship, as well as other citizens at the discretion of the court shall be summoned to court.
When preparing a case for trial, the judge appoints an official representative - a lawyer to represent and protect the interests of a minor left without parental care in the process of an initiated case.
The official representative - the lawyer shall have the powers of a legal representative. 
2. The participation of the prosecutor in the consideration of an application for placement a minor into a special education organization for children with deviant behavior or an organization with a special regime of detention shall be mandatory.
3. The applicant shall be exempt from payment of court costs related to the consideration of the case concerning the placement a minor into a special education organization for children with deviant behavior or an organization with a special regime of detention.
Footnote.

Section 647. Original section/article: 333. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 648. Original section/article: 334. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application for placement a minor into a special education organization or education organization with a special regime of detention 
1. Having considered the application for placement a minor into a special education organization or an education organization with a special regime of detention on the merits, the court makes a decision that shall reject or satisfy the application. 
2. The decision to satisfy the application shall be the ground for placement a minor into a special education organization or an education organization with a special regime of detention.
3. The term of stay of a minor in a special education organization or an education organization with a special regime of detention shall be calculated from the day the decision enters into legal force.
Chapter 38 PROCEEDING ON CASES OF COMPULSORY HOSPITALIZATION OF A CITIZEN WITH A MENTAL, BEHAVIORAL DISORDER (DISEASE) NOT ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCES TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE ORGANIZATION PROVIDING MENTAL HEALTH CARE
Footnote. The heading of chapter 38 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 649. Original section/article: 335. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of an application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not related to the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. An application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, without his/her consent, shall be submitted by a representative of the organization providing mental health care, to the court at the location of the organization providing mental health care.
2. The application, which shall indicate the grounds provided for by law for the compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not associated with the use of psychoactive substances, shall be accompanied by a reasoned opinion of the commission of psychiatrists of the organization providing mental health care, who decided on the reasonableness of hospitalization of a citizen to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, and his/her treatment.
Footnote.

Section 650. Original section/article: 335. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 651. Original section/article: 336. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deadline for applying compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), not related to the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. An application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), not related to the use of psychoactive substances, to the hospital of an organization providing mental health care, shall be filed with the court no later than seventy-two hours from the moment of placing the citizen to the hospital of the organization providing mental health care.
Compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, before a court decision is made, shall be allowed solely to avoid the consequences provided for in subparagraphs 3) and 4) of paragraph 1

Section 652. Original section/article: 137. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Health and Healthcare System".
For each case of compulsory hospitalization without a court decision, the administration of an organization providing mental health care, within forty-eight hours from the moment the citizen was admitted to the hospital of an organization providing mental health care, shall send a written notification to the prosecutor.
2. When initiating a case, the judge shall simultaneously extend the stay of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not related to the use of psychoactive substances in the hospital of an organization providing mental health care for the period necessary to consider the application in court.
Footnote.

Section 653. Original section/article: 336. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 654. Original section/article: 337. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), not related to the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 655. Original section/article: 337. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. An application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care shall be considered by a judge within ten working days from the date of initiation of the case. The court session shall be held on the premises of the court or the organization providing mental health care in which the citizen is hospitalized. A citizen shall have the right to personally participate in a court session on the case of his/her compulsory hospitalization, if, according to the information received from the representative of the organization providing mental health care, the mental state of this citizen allows him/her to personally participate in the court session, which is held on the premises of the organization, providing mental health care.
1-1. During the preparation of a case for trial, the judge shall appoint an official representative - a lawyer to represent and protect the interests of a citizen in the process of an initiated case. 
The official representative - the lawyer shall have the powers of a legal representative. 
2. The case shall be considered with the participation of a representative of a medical organization providing mental health care, to which a citizen is hospitalized and on whose initiative a case has been initiated, and representatives of a citizen in respect of whom the issue of compulsory hospitalization of an organization providing mental health care is being decided, as well as his/her family members and other interested parties.
Footnote.

Section 656. Original section/article: 337. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 657. Original section/article: 338. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on an application for compulsory hospitalization of a person with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), not related to the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. Having considered the application on the merits, the court shall make a decision by which it rejects or satisfies the application.
2. The decision to satisfy the application shall be the grounds for the compulsory hospitalization of a citizen for treatment and further detention to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, for a period established by law.
Footnote.

Section 658. Original section/article: 338. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 659. Original section/article: 339. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission and consideration of an application for the extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. An application for the extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization for more than six months shall be submitted to the court by the organization providing mental health care, at the location of the organization providing mental health care.
2. An application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization shall be accompanied by a conclusion of a commission of psychiatrists on the need to extend the period of compulsory hospitalization and treatment, issued in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of healthcare.
3. An application for an extension of the term for compulsory hospitalization shall be considered in the manner prescribed by

Section 660. Original section/article: 337. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 661. Original section/article: 339. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 662. Original section/article: 340. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on an application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization and treatment of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not related to the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. Having considered the application on the merits, the court shall make a decision by which it rejects or satisfies this application.
2. A court decision to satisfy an application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization and treatment of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not related to the use of psychoactive substances shall be the grounds for extending the period of compulsory hospitalization and treatment for a period established by law.
3. A court decision to reject an application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization and treatment of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) not related to the use of psychoactive substances shall be the grounds for discharge from the hospital of an organization providing mental health care.
Footnote.

Section 663. Original section/article: 340. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 39 PROCEEDINGS ON COMPULSORY HOSPITALIZATION OF A CITIZEN WITH A MENTAL, BEHAVIORAL DISORDER (DISEASE) ASSOCIATED WITH THE USE OF PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCES TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE ORGANIZATION PROVIDING MENTAL HEALTH CARE
Footnote. Chapter 39 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 664. Original section/article: 341. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of an application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. An application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, without his/her consent, shall be submitted by a representative of the organization providing mental health care, according to the initiative of the spouse (wife), relatives of the patient, labour collectives, public organizations, internal affairs bodies, the prosecutor's office, guardianship authorities only if there are medical reports at the place of residence of this citizen.
If the issue of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances is resolved to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care that does not have a permanent place of residence, an application shall be submitted by the internal affairs bodies at the location of this citizen at the time of such application.
2. An application, which shall indicate the grounds provided for by law for referral to compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, shall be accompanied by a reasoned conclusion of the commission of psychiatrists of the organization providing mental health care, on recognizing him/her as a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease), and the need to apply coercive measures to him.

Section 665. Original section/article: 342. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application for compulsory hospitalization of a person with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. An application for compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, the judge shall consider at the location of the organization providing mental health care, within ten working days from the date of acceptance of the application for processing.
2. The case shall be considered with the participation of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, sent for compulsory treatment, representatives of the healthcare and internal affairs authorities, on whose initiative the case was initiated, relatives, spouse (wife) of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, representatives of public associations.
If a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, in respect of which a case has been initiated on sending an organization providing mental health care for compulsory hospitalization to a hospital, evades appearing at the court session, he/she is subjected to compulsory driven by the internal affairs bodies.

Section 666. Original section/article: 343. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on an application for compulsory hospitalization of a person with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. Having considered the application on the merits, the court shall make a decision by which it rejects or satisfies the application.
2. The decision to satisfy the application shall be the grounds for the hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, for a period established by law.

Section 667. Original section/article: 344. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission and consideration of an application for the extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization of a person with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. In cases provided for by law, the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care may be extended at the request of the administration of the organization providing mental health care, at the location of this organization.
2. An application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care shall be accompanied by a medical opinion on the need to extend the period of compulsory hospitalization.

Section 668. Original section/article: 345. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on an application to extend the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care 
1. Having considered the application on the merits, the court shall make a decision by which it rejects or satisfies this application.
2. A court decision to satisfy an application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care shall be the grounds for extending the period of compulsory hospitalization for a period established by law.
3. A court decision to reject an application for an extension of the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with a mental, behavioural disorder (disease) associated with the use of psychoactive substances to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care shall be the grounds for discharge from the hospital of an organization providing mental health care.
Chapter 40. PROCEEDING ON CASES OF COMPULSORY TREATMENT OF A CITIZEN, SUFFERING FROM TUBERCULOSIS AND AVOIDING TREATMENT

Section 669. Original section/article: 346. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application for compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis and avoiding treatment. 
1. An application for compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis, without his consent, shall be submitted by a representative of health care bodies (organizations) at the location of the tuberculosis institution that carries out medical (dispensary) observation of this patient, or in court at the place of residence of the patient.
2. The application, which shall specify the grounds provided by law for the treatment of a citizen with a tuberculosis, without his consent, and shall attach the conclusion of the organization of health care regarding the recognition of a patient with tuberculosis, as well as documents confirming the patient’s refusal of treatment prescribed by the doctor.

Section 670. Original section/article: 347. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application for compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis and avoiding treatment 
1. The judge shall consider the application for compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis and evading treatment, within five working days from the day the application is submitted to the court proceedings.
2. The case is considered with the participation of a citizen who is sent for compulsory treatment in the courtroom, or at the location of the tuberculosis institution that carries out medical (dispensary) monitoring of this patient.
In the case when, according to the data of the specialized anti-tuberculosis organization, a representative of the public health organization or the criminal executive system of the Internal Affairs Authorities who introduced the referral to compulsory treatment, and the prosecutor, the person is a danger to others, due to the threat of the spread of the disease, the case can be considered without the presence of the person or with using video conferencing, if available.
3. The case is considered with the participation of a citizen, a representative of a health organization or the criminal executive system of the internal affairs bodies who submitted a submission on referral to compulsory treatment.
Footnote.

Section 671. Original section/article: 347. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon the expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 672. Original section/article: 348. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application for compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis and avoiding treatment 
1. Having considered the application on the merits, the court makes a decision that shall reject or satisfy the application.
2. The decision to satisfy the application is the ground for sending a citizen with a tuberculosis to compulsory treatment in a specialized anti-tuberculosis organization for a period prescribed by law.
3. Compulsory treatment of a citizen suffering from tuberculosis who is released from a penitentiary system institution who has not completed a full course of treatment while serving a sentence is carried out in specialized tuberculosis organizations at the place of release in the manner established by the Penitentiary Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Execution of a court decision on sending of a citizen with a tuberculosis is imposed on compulsory treatment by enforcement authorities.
5. The execution of a court decision on the sending a citizen with a tuberculosis who is released from the institution of the penitentiary system is carried out by the Internal Affairs Authorities on the basis of notification of this institution.
Footnote.

Section 673. Original section/article: 348. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.04.2017 № 58-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 41. PROCEEDING ON CASES OF RESTRUCTURIZATION OF FINANCIAL ORGANIZATIONS AND NON FINANCIAL ORGANIZATIONS BELONGING TO A BANK CONGLOMERATE AS PARENT ORGANIZATION

Section 674. Original section/article: 349. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration on cases of restructurization of financial organizations and non financial organizations belonging to a bank conglomerate as parent organization 
Cases of restructuring financial organizations and non financial organizations belonging to a bank conglomerate as parent organization are considered by a specialized inter-district economic court according to the general rules provided for by this Code, with features established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The provisions of this chapter apply to the restructuring of a non financial organization belonging to a bank conglomerate as a parent organization in cases provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 675. Original section/article: 350. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application on restructuring 
1. An application for the restructuring of a financial organization shall be filed by a financial organization in a specialized inter-district economic court.
2. The application for restructuring, with the grounds provided by law for restructuring a financial organization shall attach the following:
1) decision of the board of directors of a financial organization to conduct a restructuring;
2) a written agreement of the financial organization with the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the restructuring of the financial organization;
3) draft restructuring plan for a financial institution containing the following information:
procedure and time limit for restructuring;
list of assets and liabilities restructured;
restructuring activities;
prospective financial results from the restructuring of assets and liabilities;
accepted restrictions on activities.
Footnote.

Section 676. Original section/article: 350. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 262-VI dated 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced since 01.01.2020).

Section 677. Original section/article: 351. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of an application 
The court considers the application for the restructuring of a financial organization within five working days from the date of its acceptance to the court proceedings.

Section 678. Original section/article: 352. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision 
1. Having considered the application for the restructuring of a financial organization, the court makes a decision on the restructuring of a financial organization, which shall contain:
1) name of the financial organization;
2) indication of the restructuring of the financial organization with the definition of the restructuring date and officials of the financial organization responsible for conducting the restructuring, convening and conducting a meeting of creditors.
2. Since the date of entry into force of a court decision on the restructuring of a financial organization:
1) shall be suspended the following:
previously adopted decision s of courts, arbitration to meet the requirements for obligations to be restructured;
claims of creditors of a financial organization, obligations to which are supposed to be restructured, declared prior to the entry into force of a court decision on the restructuring and during the restructuring of a financial organization;
2) it is not allowed to foreclose on the property of a financial organization.
3. A copy of the court decision that has come into effect on the restructuring of a financial organization shall be sent by the court to the financial organization, the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations and the relevant body of justice or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers by territoriality.
Footnote.

Section 679. Original section/article: 352. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 262-VI dated 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced since 01.01.2020); dated June 26, 2020, № 349-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 680. Original section/article: 353. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court Approval of the Restructuring Plan 
After approval by the creditors of the financial organization restructuring plan, the financial institution is required to submit the restructuring plan to the court for approval. Together with the restructuring plan, a financial institution shall submit to the court the meeting of creditors of a financial organization on the approval of the restructuring plan of a financial organization in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 681. Original section/article: 354. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on termination of restructuring 
1. A court decision to terminate the restructuring of a financial organization shall be made upon the request of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the following grounds:
1) expiration of the restructuring of the financial organization, provided for by a court decision on the restructuring;
2) implementation of a set of measures stipulated by the restructuring plan;
3) early termination of the restructuring of a financial organization in the event of:
sufficient grounds to believe that the restructuring of a financial organization will not lead to an improvement in the financial performance of a financial organization;
lack of approval of creditors of a financial organization, obtained in the manner prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
non-fulfillment of measures provided in the restructuring plan;
failure to comply with the instructions of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, applied during the restructuring period.
The implementation of a set of measures envisaged by the restructuring plan entails the termination of obligations, which were previously decided by the courts, arbitration to meet the requirements for obligations that were restructured, their execution.
2. The application of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan referred to in the first part of this article shall be considered by the court within five working days from the date of its acceptance to the court proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 682. Original section/article: 354. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 262-VI dated 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced since 01.01.2020). 
Chapter 42. Proceedings on restoration of solvency, judicial bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as debt restructuring, rehabilitation, bankruptcy, liquidation without initiation of bankruptcy proceedings of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities
Footnote. Chapter 42 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 683. Original section/article: 355. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of cases on restoration of solvency or judicial bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Cases on restoration of solvency or judicial bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan are considered by the court according to the general rules provided for by this Code, with the specifics established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On restoration of solvency and bankruptcy of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan".

Section 684. Original section/article: 355-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of cases on debt restructuring, rehabilitation, bankruptcy of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities, as well as their liquidation without initiating bankruptcy proceedings 
Cases on debt restructuring, rehabilitation, bankruptcy of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities, as well as their liquidation without initiating bankruptcy proceedings are considered by the court according to the general rules provided for by this Code, with the specifics established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On rehabilitation and bankruptcy".
Chapter 43. PROCEEDING ON ACHNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE MOVABLE THING AS VACANT AND ACHNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE COMMUNAL OWNERSHIP RIGHT ON IMMOVABLE PROPERTY

Section 685. Original section/article: 356. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing of application 
1. An application for ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of a movable thing as vacant in cases stipulated by the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be submitted to the court at the place of residence of the individual or location of the organization that took possession of this thing.
2. An application for ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of the communal ownership right of real estate shall be submitted to the court at the location of this property by the body authorized to manage the communal property.
3. The court returns a statement recognizing the communal ownership right of immovable property, if the body authorized to manage the communal property goes to court with a statement before the expiration of one year from the date of acceptance of this property by the body registering the right to immovable property, except for the case referred to in paragraph 3 of

Section 686. Original section/article: 242. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 687. Original section/article: 357. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of Application 
1. In the application for ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of a movable thing as ownerless, it should be indicated which thing is to be recognized as ownerless, its main distinctive features should be described, as well as evidence indicating that the owner left the thing without the intention to retain ownership of it and evidence indicating that the claimant took possession of the thing should be presented.
2. In the application of the body authorized to manage the communal property, recognizing the communal ownership right of immovable property, it should be indicated which property is to recognized as ownerless, by whom and how it was revealed and when it was registered as ownerless, and also evidence indicating that the property was left by the owner without the intention to preserve the ownership of it should be presented.

Section 688. Original section/article: 358. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparing a case for the court 
In preparing the case for a court proceeding, the court shall find out which persons (owners), actual owners and others can give information about the ownership of the property, shall interrogate the relevant organizations about the information available, and also shall carry out all the procedural actions provided for in

Section 689. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
The preparation of the case for court proceeding is carried out within ten working days from the date of the application to the court. Extension of this period is not allowed.

Section 690. Original section/article: 359. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of application 
An application for recognizing a movable thing as ownerless or for recognizing the communal ownership right of real estate is considered by the court with the participation of the applicant and all persons interested in the case.

Section 691. Original section/article: 360. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application 
1. The court, recognizing that a movable thing has no owner or is left by the owner without the intention to retain ownership of it, shall decide to recognize the movable thing as ownerless and to transfer it to the ownership of the person who took possession of it.
2. The court, recognizing that real estate does not have an owner or is left by owner without the intention to retain the right of ownership and has been registered in the prescribed manner, shall make a decision on recognizing immovable property as ownerless and recognizing the communal property right.
Chapter 44. PROCEEDING ON THE ISSUES CONCERNING ESTABLISHMENT OF INACCURACY OF RECORDS OF CIVIL STATE ACTS 
Footnote. Chapter 44 is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Chapter 45. PROCEEDING ON COMPLAINTS FOR NOTARY ACTIONS OR REFUSAL TO ACCOMPLISH THEM

Section 692. Original section/article: 364. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing a Complaint 
1. An interested person, who considers a notarial act or refusal to accomplish a notarial act to be wrong, has the right to file a complaint with the court at the location of the notary or an official authorized to accomplish notarial acts.
2. Complaints about the inaccurate certification of wills and powers of attorney or about the refusal to certify them by officials listed in the law are submitted to the court at the location of the hospital, other inpatient medical and preventive institutions, social protection institutions, the appropriate body of social protection, expedition, hospital, military educational institution, military unit, formation, institution, organization, place of detention.
3. Complaints about inaccurate certification of a will or refusal of its certificate by the captain of a marine vessel or an inland navigation vessel flying the flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be filed with the court at the port of registry of the vessel.
4. A complaint shall be filed with the court within ten days, calculated from the day when the applicant became aware of the accomplished notarial act or refusal to accomplish the notarial act.

Section 693. Original section/article: 365. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation of the case for court proceeding 
In preparing the case for court proceeding, the court shall find out with what kind of notarial act or refusal to do it the applicant does not agree, what expresses a violation of his rights and legitimate interests, shall conduct all the procedural actions provided for in

Section 694. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
The preparation of the case for court proceeding is carried out within ten working days from the date of the application to the court. Extension of this period is not allowed.

Section 695. Original section/article: 366. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of complaint 
1. A complaint is considered by a court with the participation of the applicant, a notary or an official authorized to accomplish notarial acts, who accomplished the complained notarial act or refused to accomplish the notarial act. However, their non-appearance is not an obstacle to resolving the case.
2. If, during filing of a complaint or during consideration of a case, a dispute about the right is established between the interested parties, based on the notarial act, the court makes a decision to leave the application without consideration, in which it explains to the applicant and other interested parties their right to resolve the dispute order of claim proceedings.

Section 696. Original section/article: 367. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on complaint 
The decision of the court, which satisfied the complaint of the applicant, cancels the notarial act or obliges to perform such an action.
Chapter 46. RESTORATION OF RIGHTS TO LOST ORDER SECURITIES (PROCEDRE TO DECLARE LOST DOCUMENTS VOID)
Footnote. The title of Chapter 46 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.09.2025, № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 697. Original section/article: 368. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing of application 
1. A person who has lost an order security (hereinafter referred to as the document) shall, in the cases specified by law, have the right to apply to the court to invalidate the lost document and restore the rights under it. The rights under the document may also be restored if the document has lost its payment ability as a result of improper storage or for other reasons.
2. An application for ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of a lost document as invalid shall be submitted to the court at the location of the person who issued the document.
Footnote.

Section 698. Original section/article: 368. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.09.2025, № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 699. Original section/article: 369. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of application 
The statement should indicate the distinctive features of the lost document, the name of the person who issued it, and also set out the circumstances in which the document was lost, the applicant's request to prohibit the person who issued the document to make payments or extraditions.

Section 700. Original section/article: 370. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparing the case for a court proceeding 
1. In the ruling on the preparation of the case for trial, the judge shall oblige the applicant to publish at his own expense in the media (at the district, regional, republican level, on the Internet, on television) information about the initiation of proceedings for the restoration of rights to lost order securities.
The publication shall be made in time, established by court, and should contain:
the name of the court in which the application for the loss of the document 
was received;
2) an indication of the person who submitted the application, and his address;
3) the name and distinctive features of the document;
4) the proposal to the holder of the document, the loss of which is claimed to submit to the court a statement of his rights to this document within three months from the date of publication.
2. The applicant is obliged to submit a confirmation on publication in the mass media to the court no later than three working days from the date of its publication. Failure to submit a confirmation of publication will result in leaving the application without consideration.
3. The court sends a copy of the determination to the person who issued the document, the registrar and the applicant. 
4. After accepting the application, the judge makes a decision on prohibiting the issuer of the document to make payments or issuances on it and sends a copy of the decision to the person who issued the document, the registrar and the central depositary.
A private complaint may be submitted to the determination, and a petition by the prosecutor is brought to the court of appeal, the decision of which is final.
Footnote.

Section 701. Original section/article: 370. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 166-VI dated 02.07.2018 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 19.09.2025, № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 702. Original section/article: 371. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Document holder's statement 
The holder of the document, the loss of which is claimed before the expiration of the three-month period from the date of publication must submit to the court, which rendered the determination, a statement of his rights to the document and submit the document in the original.

Section 703. Original section/article: 372. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Actions of the judge after receipt of the application from the document holder 
1. If an application is received from the document holder before the expiration of a three-month period from the date of publication, the court leaves the application of the person who lost the document without consideration and establishes the period during which the issuing person is prohibited to make payments and extraditions. This period shall not exceed two months.
2. At the same time, the court clarifies to the applicant his right to sue in a general manner against the holder of the document requesting this document, and the holder of the document his right to recover from the applicant the damages caused by the restraining measures taken.
3. The court's decision is not subject to appeal and revision at the request of the prosecutor on appeal.
Footnote.

Section 704. Original section/article: 372. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 705. Original section/article: 373. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of the application for ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of the lost document as invalid 
1. The judge considers the case on the ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of the lost document as invalid after three months from the date of publication, if the application referred to in

Section 706. Original section/article: 372. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code has not been received from the document holder.
2. An application to the court from the holder of the lost document after the expiration of a three-month period, but prior to the consideration of the case on the merits, results in the consequences provided for in

Section 707. Original section/article: 374. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application 
1. If the applicant’s application is satisfied, the court shall make a decision recognizing the lost document as invalid. This decision is the basis for issuing to the applicant a contribution or a new document to replace the invalid.
2. In case of satisfaction of the application for restoration of the right under the documents that have lost the signs of payment, the court shall make a decision on issuing a new document.

Section 708. Original section/article: 375. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The right of the document holder to bring action for unjustified acquisition of property 
The holder of the document, who for any reason did not declare his rights to this document in a timely manner, after the court’s decision on declaring the document null and void enters into force, may bring action against the person for whom the right to receive a new document to replace the lost document for unjustified acquisition or saving of property.
Chapter 47. PROCEEDING ON APPLICATIONON FOR THE ACHNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE ORGANIZATION, EXTINGUISHING EXTREMISM OR TERRORIST ACTIVITY ON TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN AND (OR) OF ANOTHER STATE, AS EXTREMIST OR TERRORIST, INCLUDING CHANGE OF ITS NAME, AS WELL AS ACHNOWLEDGEMENT OF INFORMATION MATERIALS IMPORTED, MANUFACTURED AND (OR) DISTRIBUTED IN THE TERRITORY REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN, AS EXTREMISTIC OR TERRORISTIC

Section 709. Original section/article: 376. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Filing of application 
A statement on the ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of an organization carrying out extremism or terrorist activity on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) of another state, as extremist or terrorist, including the change of its name, as well as ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of information materials imported, published, manufactured and (or ) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, extremist or terrorist, shall be filed by the prosecutor to the court at the location of the prosecutor who made such claims, or according to the detection of such materials.

Section 710. Original section/article: 377. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of application 
The statement should state the circumstances confirming the fact that the organization carries out activities in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) another state that could be recognized as extremist or terrorist in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or whether it changes its name or information materials of signs and / or calls for extremism or terrorism.
The materials contained in the statement of the prosecutor about the ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of an organization as extremist or terrorist, including the change of its name, as well as ACHNOWLEDGEMENT of information materials imported, published, manufactured and (or) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as extremist or terrorist, may also include evidence obtained from the competent authorities of foreign states, including judgments of international courts and foreign courts.

Section 711. Original section/article: 378. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on the application 
The court, recognizing the organization as extremist or terrorist and (or) informational materials imported, published, manufactured and (or) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as extremist or terrorist, decides to prohibit activities and liquidate the organization and (or) to prohibit importation, publication, production and (or) distribution of information materials on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as on confiscation and circulation of the organization’s property into the state’s revenue.
A court decision recognizing an organization carrying out extremism or terrorist activity in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) another state, as extremist or terrorist, including the change of its name, as well as recognizing information materials imported, published, manufactured and ( or) distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as extremist or terrorist, serves as a basis for including this information in the system of special records of state the body which carries out within its competence statistical activities in the field of legal statistics and special accounts.
Chapter 48. PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATIONS FOR RECOGNITION OF ONLINE CASINOS, PRODUCTS OF FOREIGN MASS MEDIA DISTRIBUTED IN THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN CONTAINING INFORMATION CONTRARY TO THE LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN, AS ILLEGAL 
Footnote. The title of Chapter 48 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 712. Original section/article: 379. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application 
An application for recognition of an online casino, products of foreign mass media distributed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan containing information contrary to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan as illegal is submitted by citizens and legal entities whose legitimate interests have been affected in the products of foreign mass media, by a prosecutor or an authorized body to the court in writing or in the form of an electronic document at the applicant's location.
Footnote.

Section 713. Original section/article: 379. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 714. Original section/article: 380. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application content 
The application for recognition of an online casino, products of foreign mass media distributed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan containing information contrary to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as illegal must indicate the facts and documents proving the illegal activity of an online casino or what information is subject to recognition as illegal, as well as evidence indicating on the non-compliance of information products with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the facts confirming the dissemination of the information contained in the application.
Footnote.

Section 715. Original section/article: 380. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 716. Original section/article: 381. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on application 
The court, having recognized that the online casino, the products of foreign mass media distributed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, containing information contrary to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, are illegal, decides to suspend or terminate the activities of the online casino, the distribution of foreign mass media products in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The court's decision is sent to the relevant state body. 
Footnote.

Section 717. Original section/article: 381. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 49. PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATION FOR DEPORTATION OF NON-CITIZENS OR STATELESS PERSONS OUTSIDE THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN FOR VIOLATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

Section 718. Original section/article: 382. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application 
Application for deportation of a non-citizen or a stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for violation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be submitted by Internal Affairs Agencies to the court at the location and (or) registration of a non-citizen or a stateless person.

Section 719. Original section/article: 383. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application content 
1. Application for deportation of a non-citizen or a stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall contain description of circumstances, that evidence violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Documents, confirming commitment of violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by a non-citizen or a stateless person, shall be attached to the application for deportation of non-citizen or stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 720. Original section/article: 384. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of application 
1. The court shall consider an application for deportation of non-citizen or stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan within ten days from the moment of initiation of proceedings.
2. Application for deportation of non-citizen or stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be processed with mandatory involvement of the non-citizen or the stateless person.
3. Court fees and costs for deportation shall be borne by deported non-citizens or stateless persons, or legal entities or individuals, who invited this person in the Republic of Kazakhstan. In case of lack or insufficiency of funds experienced by stated persons for covering costs for deportation, funding of the relevant activities shall be provided from the budget.
Footnote.

Section 721. Original section/article: 384. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 722. Original section/article: 385. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on application 
1. Court decision on deportation of a non-citizen or a stateless person outside the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be enforced from the date of such judgement, and shall be the basis for deportation of a non-citizen or a stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The judgement shall specify the term within which non-citizen or stateless person must leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Court decision shall be directed to Internal Affairs Agencies for execution.

Section 723. Original section/article: 386. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Stay of execution of court decision on deportation 
In case of appeal or objection prior to expiration of the term stated by the court for deportation of a non-citizen or a stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan, execution of the court decision on deportation of non-citizen or stateless person outside of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be suspended for consideration of appeal or objection.
SUBSECTION 5. PROCEEDINGS ON RESTORATION OF LOST JUDICIAL OR ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS Charter 50. PROCEEDINGS ON RESTORATION OF LOST JUDICIAL OR ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS

Section 724. Original section/article: 387. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application 
1. Restoration of lost, completely or in part, judicial or enforcement proceedings on a civil case, closed by judgement or discontinuance, shall be carried out by the court in order stipulated by this charter.
2. Application for restoration of judicial proceedings shall be submitted to the court, that has gave judgement on the merits or on discontinuance of proceedings on a case, by involved persons or by a prosecutor.
3. Application for restoration of lost enforcement proceedings shall be submitted to the court by an executor or a prosecutor at the location of enforcement proceedings.
4. The application shall specify: restoration of which proceedings is requested by an applicant, whether the court has made judgement on the merits or discontinuance of proceedings, which procedural status was taken by an applicant, what other parties were involved in a case and their procedural statuses, their places of location or residence, what information is known by an applicant in relation to circumstances of losing of proceedings, on location of copies of proceedings documents or information on such documents, restoration of what documents is deemed to be necessary by an applicant, and the purpose of restoration.
5. The application shall have attached kept and relevant documents or copies, even if they are not properly certified.
6. Application for restoration of lost proceedings shall not be paid by state fee.

Section 725. Original section/article: 388. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of application 
1. In case of absence of purpose of initiation of legal action for restoration of lost proceedings in the application, and if the purpose specified by an applicant is not related to protection of his/her rights and legal interests, the court shall dismiss initiation of a case on restoration of proceedings or dismiss without prejudice by reasoned decision, if it has been initiated.
2. Court proceeding, lost prior to consideration on the merits, shall not be subject to restoration in order stipulated in this charter. In this case applicant is entitled to file a new claim. Court determination on initiation of case on new claim related to lost court proceedings shall reflect this fact.
3. During consideration of a case, the court shall use kept parts of proceedings, documents issued prior to losing of proceedings to citizens and legal entities, copies of such documents, other materials related to the case.
4. The court may interview persons, who were present at proceedings, as witnesses, and, if required, persons, involved into composition of the court, which considered the case, as well as persons, executing court judgement.

Section 726. Original section/article: 389. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on application 
1. Court decision or ruling on discontinuance of proceedings shall be subject to mandatory restoration, if such judgement has been given.
2. Court decision on restoration of lost court decision or determination on discontinuance of proceedings on the case shall specify certain data, submitted to the court and examined at court session with participation of all involved parties of lost proceedings, that served as a basis for specification of content of restored judicial act.
3. Declaration of intent on case on restoration of lost proceedings shall also include findings of the court on proof of evidences examined by the court and procedural actions executed on lost proceedings.
4. Lost enforcement proceedings shall be restored, if the judgement is executed.
5. Act on execution of court decision shall be restored by court decision with specification of actions executed and reflected in the act by an executor in the execution process.
6. In case of loss of enforcement proceedings prior to execution of judgement, when copy of writ of execution can be issued, the court shall dismiss initiation of a case on restoration of lost enforcement proceedings.

Section 727. Original section/article: 390. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Discontinuance of proceedings on a case on restoration of lost proceedings 
1. In case of insufficiency of collected materials for accurate restoration of judicial act on lost proceedings, the court shall dismiss proceedings on application for restoration of proceedings and shall explain to involved parties their right to submit a claim in general order.
2. Consideration of application for restoration of judicial act on lost proceedings shall not limited by its period of custody. However, in case of application for restoration of lost proceedings for the purpose of its execution, when term for submission of writ of execution for enforcement expired, and not restored by the court, the court shall discontinue proceedings on the application.

Section 728. Original section/article: 391. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for contest of judicial acts related to restoration of lost proceedings 
1. Judicial acts related to restoration of lost judicial proceedings shall be contested in order stipulated by this Code.
2. In case of knowingly false statement, court fees, related to initiation of a case on the application for restoration of lost judicial proceedings, shall be recovered from an applicant.
SUBSECTION 6. PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATION FOR RETURN OF A CHILD OR FOR EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF ACCESS IN RELATION TO A CHILD ON THE BASIS OF INTERNATIONAL TREATY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN Chapter 51: PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATION FOR RETURN OF A CHILD OR FOR EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF ACCESS IN RELATION TO A CHILD ON THE BASIS OF INTERNATIONAL TREATY OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

Section 729. Original section/article: 392. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submission of an application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access in relation to a child on the basis of international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Application for return of a child wrongfully removed to the Republic of Kazakhstan or retained in the Republic of Kazakhstan, or for exercise of rights of access in relation to such child on the basis of international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access), shall be submitted to the court by a parent or other person, presuming that a defendant violated his/her rights of custody or rights of access, or by a prosecutor.
2. Application for return of a child or for exercise rights of access shall be submitted to a specialized interdistrict juvenile court. 
3. If the place of stay of a child in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan is unknown, the application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be submitted to a court stipulated by part 2 of this article at the last known place of stay of a child in the Republic of Kazakhstan, or at the last known place of residence of a defendant in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. If the place of stay of a child changes, application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be considered by the court, that accepted such application into proceedings in compliance with jurisdiction rules set forth by this article.
5. Application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall specify that the relevant demand is made on the basis of international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 730. Original section/article: 393. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for consideration of applications for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access 
Cases on applications for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access on the basis of international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - case on return of a child or on exercise of rights of access) shall be considered and settled under general regulations on action proceedings with specifics set forth by international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, and this charter.

Section 731. Original section/article: 394. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Security of claim 
If required, along with other measures for securing a claim in accordance with charter 15 of this Code, a judge may restrain a defendant of changing child's place of stay or restrict his/her right for exit from the Republic of Kazakhstan prior to entry of judgment on case of return of a child or for exercise of rights of access into legal force.

Section 732. Original section/article: 395. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inadmissibility of consolidation of claims and counter-claiming 
Consolidation of several claims, other than consolidation of claims by an applicant for return of two or more children, wrongfully removed to the Republic of Kazakhstan or retained in the Republic of Kazakhstan, or for exercise of rights of access in relation to two or more children on the basis of international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, and counter-claiming on a case for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall not be allowed.

Section 733. Original section/article: 396. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of applications for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access 
1. Application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be considered with mandatory involvement of authority providing functions of guardianship or custody.
2. Application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be considered by the court in term not exceeding forty-two days from the date of acceptance of the application by the court, including term for preparation of a case to court proceedings and preparation of reasoned judgement.
Footnote.

Section 734. Original section/article: 396. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 735. Original section/article: 397. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision on a case for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access 
1. Court decision on a case for return of a child, on the basis of international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, wrongfully removed to the Republic of Kazakhstan or retained in the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall be compliant with requirements stipulated by

Section 736. Original section/article: 19. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and shall include rationale of necessity of return of a child in a state of permanent residence in accordance with international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, procedure for return of a child, specification of distribution of court fees and costs for return of a child, or rationale of denial to return a child into a state of permanent residence in accordance with international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan and specification of distribution of court fees.
2. Court decision on a case for exercise of rights of access, on the basis of international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, in relation to a child, wrongfully removed to the Republic of Kazakhstan or retained in the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall be compliant with requirements stipulated by

Section 737. Original section/article: 19. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and shall include rationale of exercising rights of access by an applicant in accordance with international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, measures for enforcement of exercising rights of access by an applicant, specification of distribution of court fees, or rationale of denial for exercise of rights of access in accordance with international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, and specification of distribution of court fees.

Section 738. Original section/article: 398. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Term for filing an appeal, prosecutor’s petition in relation to court decision on a case for return of a child or for exercise of rights for access and term for consideration of a case in the court of appeal 
1. Appeals, prosecutor’s petition in relation to court decision on a case for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be submitted within ten days from the date of the court decision in final form in accordance with regulations set forth by charter 52 of this Code. 
2. Received case for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access as an appeal or prosecutor’s petition shall be considered within one month from the date of its submission to the court of appeal in accordance with regulations set forth by charter 52 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 739. Original section/article: 398. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 740. Original section/article: 399. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Term for filling and consideration of an individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition for court decision on application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access 
1. Individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition may be submitted in relation to court determination on application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access within ten working days from the date of such determination in accordance with regulations set forth by charter 52 of this Code. 
2. Individual appeal, prosecutor’s application, specified in part 1 of this article, shall be considered within ten working days from the date of transfer of a case to the appeal court as per regulations set forth by charter 429 of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 741. Original section/article: 399. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 742. Original section/article: 400. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Distribution of copies of court orders 
1. Copies of court determinations on denial of acceptance, return, reservation of an application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access without consideration, on suspension or renewal or discontinuance of proceedings on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access, copy of determination of the court of appeal in relation to individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition for specified determinations of the court of first instance, shall be sent within one day following the day of relevant determination to the authorized body, appointed in the Republic of Kazakhstan for enforcement of obligations under international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - central authority), as well as to the court processing the case related to dispute on the child, if the determining court has information on such case.
2. Copies of court determinations stipulated by part 2

Section 743. Original section/article: 152. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, on application for return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be presented to an applicant or sent to him/her within one day following the day of the relevant determination.
3. Copies of court determinations, stipulated by

Section 744. Original section/article: 271. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be sent to parties involved in the case, if they do not attend at the court session, within one day following the day of the relevant determination.
4. Copies of court judgements on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be sent to parties, involved in the case, but not attending the court session, and to the central authority within one day following the day of the court decision in final form. If additional judgement is taken for the case in accordance with

Section 745. Original section/article: 236. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the copy of such decision shall be sent to parties, involved in the case, and to the central authority within one day following the day of such additional judgement.
5. Upon expiration of term for filling an appeal, if court decision on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access is not appealed, copy of final and binding judgements shall be sent to the central authority and to the court, which suspended proceedings on the case related to dispute of such child, if the court is aware of such case.
6. Copy of appellate ruling on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be sent to the central authority and to the court of the first and the second instances, processing the case on dispute of such child, if the court is aware of such case, within three days from the ruling.
4. Copies of court determination in relation to explanation of court decision on a case on return of a child or for exercise of rights of access shall be sent to parties, involved in the case, but not attending the court session, and to the central authority within one day following the day of the relevant determination.
Footnote.

Section 746. Original section/article: 400. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 747. Original section/article: 3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
PROCEEDINGS ON REVISION OF JUDICIAL ACTS Charter 52. APPEAL, FILING OF APPEALS TO JUDICIAL ACTS BY PROSECUTOR
Footnote. Heading of charter 52 as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 748. Original section/article: 401. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Right for appeal, filing of appeals to court judgements by prosecutors 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 749. Original section/article: 401. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. In accordance with regulations specified by this charter, appeal or appeal application of prosecutor may be filled for the court judgements, which have not yet become effective in law, in appellate procedure.
2. Right to appeal court judgements shall belong to parties, other persons involved into the case.
A territorial subdivision of a public authority shall exercise the right of appeal against a court judgment with the mandatory approval of a higher authority.
3. The right to file an appeal belongs to the prosecutor who participated in the consideration of the case. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan and his deputies, the Chief Military Prosecutor, the Chief Transport Prosecutor and their deputies, military prosecutors of regions and garrisons, regional transport prosecutors, regional prosecutors and equivalent prosecutors and their deputies, district prosecutors and equivalent prosecutors and their deputies, within the limits of their competence, have the right to bring an appeal against the decision regardless of participation in the consideration of the case.
4. Appeal may also be filed by persons, not involved in the case, but in relation to rights and obligations of which the judgement was given.
Footnote.

Section 750. Original section/article: 401. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall come into force ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 751. Original section/article: 402. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Courts considering appeals and prosecutor’s applications 
An appeal petition, a prosecutor's petition against judgments rendered by district and equivalent courts, as well as against judgments rendered in cases heard under

Section 752. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, shall be considered by the appellate judicial panel for civil cases of a regional and equivalent court in a collegial panel of at least three judges of the panel.
An appeal, a prosecutor's petition against decisions made in cases considered under the rules of part 1-2 of

Section 753. Original section/article: 27. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, shall be considered by the court of the capital.
The judge shall solely consider an appeal or prosecutor’s petition to judgements made by district or equal-status courts in the simplified (written) procedure, and individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition in relation to determinations. 
Footnote.

Section 754. Original section/article: 402. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from July 1, 2021); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall enter into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 755. Original section/article: 403. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure and terms of submission for appeals and prosecutor’s application 
1. An appeal petition, the prosecutor's petition shall be filed through the court that delivered the judgment. An appeal petition or a prosecutor's petition received directly by the court of appeal shall be forwarded to the court that rendered the judgment to comply with the requirements of part two hereof and

Section 756. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, except in cases where the judgment is rendered in cases heard under the rules of

Section 757. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. Appeal or prosecutor’s petition shall be submitted to the court with copies corresponding to number of persons participating in the case. If required, the judge may bind over a person, filing an appeal or application, to provide attached copies of written evidence on number of persons participating in the case. 
3. Appeal or prosecutor’s petition may be submitted within one month from the date of the judgement in final form, other than cases specified by this Code, and from the date of receiving of copies of the judgement by persons, not involved in the proceedings. 
4. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021). 
5. Request for restoration of term for filing an appeal or prosecutor’s petition shall be considered by the court of first instance in procedure set forth by

Section 758. Original section/article: 126. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 759. Original section/article: 403. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 760. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of appeal and prosecutor’s application 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 761. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Appeal and prosecutor’s petition shall contain:
1) name of the court, to which appeal or prosecutor’s petition are addressed;
2) name of a person filing an appeal or prosecutor’s application;
3) judgement, appealed or reviewed by prosecutor’s application, and name of the court, made this judgement;
4) specification of matter of illegality or inconsistency of the court judgement, generally, with reference to applicable laws and case files;
5) specification of the part where legality of appealed or reviewed judgement by prosecutor’s petition shall be examined, and specification of changes demanded by a person filing appeal or prosecutor’s application;
6) list of documents attached to an appeal, prosecutor’s application;
7) date of submission of appeal or prosecutor’s application, and signature of a person filing appeal or prosecutor’s application. Appeal, signed by a representative, shall include attached power of attorney or other document, certifying power of such representative, if the case misses this document.
In case of filing an appeal or prosecutor’s petition in electronic form, such documents shall be certified by electronic digital signature of a person, filing such appeal, or his/her representative. Electronic documents shall be attached to appeal or prosecutor’s petition in electronic form.
2. Demands, not stated in the court of first instance, shall not be included into an appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
Reference to new evidence, which were not submitted in the court of first instance, is allowed, if an appeal or prosecutor’s petition include rationale of impossibility of submission of such evidence in the court of first instance, including cases when the person was not involved in the case in the court of first instance, as well as cases when application for examination and (or) request of such evidence was presented to the court of first instance, but remained unsatisfied.
Footnote.

Section 762. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 763. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Actions of a judge of the court of the first instance upon receipt of an appeal, prosecutor’s petition 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 764. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. A judge of the court of first instance, after receiving an appeal, a prosecutor's petition filed on time and meeting the requirements of paragraph two of part two of

Section 765. Original section/article: 401. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, Articles 403, 404 of this Code, performs the following actions:
1) to send copies of the appeal or prosecutor’s petition and attached written evidence or notification on option to get insight of electronic copies through Internet resource of the court to persons participating in the case within five working days upon receipt of the appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
Parties shall get explanation on their rights to file objections to the appeal or prosecutor’s petition in written electronic form with specification of the submission term; 
2) to address the case to the court of appeal upon expiration of term for appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
2. Civil case cannot be evoked upon expiration of the term specified for appeal or prosecutor’s application. Persons, involved in the case, and persons, not involved in the case, but in relation to which rights and obligations the court made judgement, are entitled to familiarize with case files and received appeals and objections.
Footnote.

Section 766. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 767. Original section/article: 406. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Rejection of an appeal or prosecutor’s application 
1. If an appeal is filed, or an appeal petition of the prosecutor does not meet the requirements prescribed by paragraph two of paragraph two of

Section 768. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the judge shall render a ruling, whereby he dismisses the complaint or petition of the prosecutor, and appoint a person who filed a complaint, the prosecutor, who brought the application, a period to correct deficiencies.
2. If an appealing person or prosecutor fulfill instructions specified in the relevant determination, the appeal or prosecutor’s petition are considered to be submitted at the initial date of submission. 
3. Determination on rejection of an appeal or prosecutor’s petition shall not be subject to appeal or review by prosecutor’s application.
Footnote.

Section 769. Original section/article: 406. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into force ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 770. Original section/article: 407. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Striking-out of an appeal, prosecutor’s application 
1. Striking-out of an appeal, prosecutor’s petition shall be performed in the following cases: 
1) non-execution of instructions of the judge in determination on rejection of appeal or prosecutor’s application; 
2) request of a person or a prosecutor, that filed an appeal; 
3) in case of expiration of term for review, and appeal or prosecutor’s petition do not include application for its restoration, or in case of refusal for its restoration; 
4) if an appeal or prosecutor’s petition are submitted by a person not entitled for submission or signing. 
2. Determination on striking-out of an appeal, prosecutor’s petition shall be provided by the court within five working days: 
1) in case stipulated by subparagraph 1) part 1 of this article - from the date of expiration of the term specified by the court; 
2) in other cases - from the date of receipt of an appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
Individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition may be submitted to determination of striking-out of an appeal or prosecutor’s application.
Footnote.

Section 771. Original section/article: 407. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 772. Original section/article: 408. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Defence to an appeal, prosecutor’s application 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 773. Original section/article: 408. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Person, involved into the case, shall address defence to an appeal, prosecutor’s petition to the court of appeal, other persons, involved in the case, with attachment of documents, confirming objections in relation to an appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
Defence, addressed to the court of appeal, shall include attached document, confirming distribution of the defence to other persons participating in the case.
2. Defence shall be directed prior to commencement of the court session in the court of appeal in term specified by the court and ensuring familiarization of the persons participating in the case with the defence.
3. Defence shall be signed by a person involved in the case or his/her representative. In case of filing a defence in electronic form, such document shall be certified by electronic digital signature of a person, filing such defence, or his/her representative. Defence, signed by a representative, shall include attached power of attorney or other document, confirming his/her powers. Defence in electronic form shall be accompanied by electronic documents specified in this article.
Footnote.

Section 774. Original section/article: 408. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 775. Original section/article: 409. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refusal of an appeal, prosecutor’s petition and their withdrawal 
Footnote. Heading of

Section 776. Original section/article: 409. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. The citizen who filed the appeal, including the prosecutor who filed the appeal as a party to the case, shall have the right to refuse it before the court of appeal issues a decision or withdraw it in the court of the first instance when the judge performs the actions provided for in

Section 777. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Prosecutor is entitled to withdraw an application to the court decision prior to order of the court of appeal.
Refusal of an appeal, withdrawal of an appeal, prosecutor’s petition are executed by written application to the court of the first or appellate instance.
2. The court of appeal shall provide determination on discontinuance of appellate proceedings in relation to acceptance of the refusal, if the decision is not appealed by other persons or higher-level prosecutor. The determination shall not be subject to appeal or review by prosecutor’s application. Re-submission of an appeal is not allowed, and in case of re-submission, such appeal shall be rejected.
3. In case of withdrawal of an appeal, prosecutor’s application, the court shall provide determination on rejection, which is not subject to appeal or contest. Appeal or prosecutor’s petition may be re-submitted in terms specified by part 3

Section 778. Original section/article: 403. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3-1. The court (judge) of the appellate instance, if there are grounds provided for in subparagraphs 2), 3) and 4) of the first part of

Section 779. Original section/article: 407. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, shall issue a ruling on the return of the complaint, petition of the prosecutor.
This ruling is not subject to appeal but shall not prevent the re-applying of an appeal, a prosecutor's petition to the court of the first instance.
4. If an appeal to judgement of the court of first instance is filed by other persons, it shall be considered on the merits in procedure, set forth by this charter.
Footnote.

Section 780. Original section/article: 409. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 781. Original section/article: 410. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Voluntary settlement by the parties in the court of appeal 
1. Refusal of a claim by an applicant, friendly settlement, agreement of the parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) in mediation procedure or agreement on settlement of dispute in participative procedure, occurred upon submission of an appeal, shall be executed in form of applications addressed to the court of appeal.
2. The court of appeal shall consider applications for issues specified in part 1 of this article in procedure, stipulated by

Section 782. Original section/article: 170. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and charter 17 of the Code.
3. In case of acceptance of refusal of claim, the court of appeal shall cancel the court decision and terminate proceedings on the case on the grounds specified by subparagraph 4)

Section 783. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
In case of friendly settlement of parties on dispute (conflict) in mediation procedure or agreement on settlement of dispute in participative procedure, the court of appeal shall cancel the court decision and terminate proceedings on the case on the grounds specified by subparagraphs 5), 6)

Section 784. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
4. If the court of appeal does not accept refusal of the claim from applicant, do not approve friendly settlement, agreement of parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) in mediation procedure or in participative procedure, an appeal shall be considered on the merits.

Section 785. Original section/article: 411. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Stay of execution 
The court of appeal is entitled to suspend execution of a judgement, made by the court of first instance and ordered for immediate execution in procedure, specified by

Section 786. Original section/article: 244. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, other than judgements on cases listed in

Section 787. Original section/article: 243. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, prior to consideration of the case on appeal, filed by a person or prosecutor.
When stay of execution is no longer needed, the order on stay shall be canceled.
Order on stay of execution or on cancellation of stay shall be directed (delivered) to an executor and parties.
Footnote.

Section 788. Original section/article: 411. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 53. CONSIDERATION OF CASES ON APPEAL, PROSECUTOR’S PETITION
Footnote. Heading of charter 53 as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 789. Original section/article: 412. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Matter of appellate consideration 
Under appeal or prosecutor’s application, the court of appeal in accordance with existing materials and materials submitted as per requirements of part 2

Section 790. Original section/article: 413. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code shall examine correctness of findings, applicability and interpretation of rules of substantive law, as well as compliance with regulations of civil procedural law in consideration and judgement of the case.
Footnote.

Section 791. Original section/article: 412. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 792. Original section/article: 413. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Limits of appellate consideration 
1. The court shall completely examine legality and reasonableness of judgement of the court of first instance during consideration of the case in appellate procedure.
2. The court of appeal shall assess existing evidence and evidence submitted as per part two

Section 793. Original section/article: 404. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code within the stated claim.
New evidence is accepted, if the court of appeal recognizes that impossibility of submission of such evidence in the court of first instance is well-reasoned, including cases when the person was not involved in the case in the court of first instance, as well as cases when application for examination and (or) request of such evidence was presented to the court of first instance, but remained unsatisfied.
Persons, who submit evidence to the court of appeal, shall specify the way of obtaining such evidence, and due to which circumstances necessity of its submission has occurred.
3. The rules on joining and disconnecting several claims, changing the size of claims, changing the subject and basis of the claim, replacing an improper defendant, filing a counterclaim shall not apply in the court of appeal, except for the cases established by part four of this article.
4. In cases of cancellation of a court decision on the grounds provided for in part four of

Section 794. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code and acceptance of the case for consideration on the merits, the court of appeal shall consider and resolve the case according to the rules of the court of first instance.
Footnote.

Section 795. Original section/article: 413. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (effective from 01.07.2023).

Section 796. Original section/article: 414. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation to consideration of the case in the court of appeal 
1. Judge of the court of appeal, received the case with appeal or prosecutor’s application, shall check adherence of the court of first instance to requirements of

Section 797. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code. In case of non-compliance of the court of first instance with requirements of

Section 798. Original section/article: 405. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, the case may be returned to the court of first instance for elimination of deficiencies, except for cases when they can be eliminated by the court of appeal.
2. Judge shall has the right, on his own initiative or at the request of the persons participating in the case, in order to prepare the case for consideration perform actions stipulated by

Section 799. Original section/article: 165. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code within ten days from the date of acceptance of the case into the court.
The judge shall conduct the conciliation procedures in accordance with the requirements provided for in Chapter 17 of this Code.
3. The court of appeal shall notify persons, involved into the case, on time and place of the court session.
Footnote.

Section 800. Original section/article: 414. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 801. Original section/article: 415. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Term for consideration of the case by the court of appeal 
The case is considered within two months from the date of its submission to the court of appeal, excluding cases specified by the Code.
Footnote.

Section 802. Original section/article: 415. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021).

Section 803. Original section/article: 416. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Proceedings in the court of appeal 
1. Prosecutor shall participate in session of the court of appeal in cases, stipulated by part 2

Section 804. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, and give his/her conclusion on the case.
The court of appeal notifies the prosecutor of the cases to be considered in the appellate instance.
2. The court of appeal shall examine additional materials, relevant for proper settlement of the case, provided by parties or requested by applications, and obtained expert reports, and interview persons, called to the session, in accordance with the rules for the court of first instance.
3. The court of appeal shall conduct the proceeding in an electronic format, if such a format was used in the court of first instance.
4. If it shall not possible to use an electronic format, the court of appeal shall turn to a paper format, for which shall made a reasoned decision.
Footnote.

Section 805. Original section/article: 416. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 241-VI dated 02.04.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 806. Original section/article: 417. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Initiation of proceedings 
1. Presiding judge shall open a court session of the court of appeal and announce: the case, the person appealed, the judgement of which court is subject to consideration, membership of the court of appeal, secretary of the court session, and a prosecutor, if he/she participates in consideration of the case. Presiding judge shall specify attending persons, involved in the case, and representatives, confirm identities of attending persons, verify powers of officials and representatives, and certify the awareness of persons, involved in the case, of their rights and obligations. The court shall explain rights and obligation to relevant persons, if they are not aware of such rights and obligations. If challenges are stated, they shall be allowed in procedure set forth by

Section 807. Original section/article: 41. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code. 
2. The court shall hear explanations of persons, involved into the case, and representatives, that attended the court session. In case of appeal of the judgement by both parties, an applicant shall speak firstly in the court. The court of appeal shall examine evidence upon explanations of appealed person or prosecutor, and other persons, involved into the case, and their representatives. 
Footnote.

Section 808. Original section/article: 417. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 809. Original section/article: 418. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences of failure to appear at court proceedings 
1. In case of failure to attend court proceedings in the court of appeal of any persons, involved into the case, who were not properly notified on time and place of the session, the court shall postpone the proceedings.
2. Failure to attend court proceedings of persons, specified in part 1 of this article, who were properly notified on time and place of the court session, shall not imped the proceedings. However, the court is entitled to postpone the proceedings in that case, if such failure to attend is well-reasoned.
3. In case of postponement of the court session, the court of appeal shall properly notify persons, involved into the case, on time and place of the court session. Consideration of the case in the second session shall be continued, if persons, involved in the case, do not insist on proceedings from the beginning.

Section 810. Original section/article: 419. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Resolution of applications and motions of persons participating in the case 
1. Applications and motions of persons, involved in the case, on all issues related to consideration of the case in the appellate instance, shall be resolved by the court upon hearing of opinions of other persons, involved in the case.
2. Parties are entitled to state motions on examination and (or) request for evidence, satisfaction of which was rejected by the court of first instance.
3. Resolution of applications and motions related to examination of circumstances of the case shall be performed under the regulations of

Section 811. Original section/article: 195. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code. Furthermore, the court of appeal is not entitled to reject satisfaction of a motion on the basis that it was satisfied by the court of first instance.

Section 812. Original section/article: 420. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Examination of evidence 
1. Procedure and limits of examination of evidence shall be defined by the court, taking into account opinions of persons, involved in the case.
2. The court shall examine existing evidence and evidence submitted as per regulations of part 2

Section 813. Original section/article: 413. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code upon explanation of parties, other persons, involved in the case.
3. The court is entitled to announce explanations of persons, involved in the case, and who did not attend the court session, as well as statements of witnesses, who were not called to the session of the court of appeal.
4. Parties are entitled to state motions on calling and interviewing of witnesses and on examination and (or) request of evidence, which was rejected by the court of first instance. If statements of witnesses are contested by parties, such persons may be called to the court of appeal.
5. The court shall examine and assess jointly with other evidence, the evidence, which are contested by a person, filing appeal, or by a prosecutor, filing an application, for their relevance, admissibility, reliability.
Footnote.

Section 814. Original section/article: 420. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 815. Original section/article: 421. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Pleadings 
1. Upon consideration of the case on the merits, presiding judge shall question persons participating in the case on presence of any motions. The court shall resolve such motions, and then proceed to pleadings.
2. Pleadings shall be carried out as per regulations, set forth by

Section 816. Original section/article: 217. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, and appealed person or prosecutor, and(or) his/her representative shall speak firstly in the court. In case of appeal of the judgement by both parties, an applicant shall speak firstly in the court.
3. At the end of the judicial debate and hearing the conclusion of the prosecutor, the court shall leave to render a decision.
Footnote.

Section 817. Original section/article: 421. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 818. Original section/article: 422. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Record of the proceedings 
In the court of appeal the record shall be maintained in accordance with the regulations of part 3

Section 819. Original section/article: 423. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Performance of judicial act and its announcement 
1. Performance of a judicial act and its announcement shall be provided as per rules set forth by articles 222, 223 and 224 of the Code.
2. The court may announce operative part of the judicial act, following the regulations of part 1 of this article, and to specify term of its preparation in final form. Operative part of the judicial act shall be attached to the case files.
Reasoned judicial act shall be prepared and signed by the judge within five working days from the date of proceedings. A copy of the reasoned judicial action shall be sent (handed over) to the participants of the case no later than three working days after its production.
Footnote.

Section 820. Original section/article: 423. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 821. Original section/article: 424. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Powers of the court of appeal
1. The court of appeal shall have the power to:
1) leave the judgment unchanged, and the appeal, the prosecutor's petition without satisfaction;
2) change the judgment of the court of first instance;
3) reverse the judgment of the court of first instance and render a new judgment;
4) revoke the judgment in whole or in part and to terminate the proceedings or to leave the lawsuit without consideration on the grounds stipulated by

Section 822. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and sub-paragraphs 2), 4), 5), 9) and 10) of

Section 823. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
5) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); 
6) to take the case into its own proceedings for consideration on the merits according to the rules of the court of first instance in case of cancellation of the court decision on the grounds provided for in part four of

Section 824. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
7) revoke the judgment in whole or in part and to leave the lawsuit without consideration on the ground stipulated by subparagraph 8) of

Section 825. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, in case such application has been filed in the court of first instance and has not been resolved by the court on the merits;
8) revoke the judgment in whole or in part and to dismiss the lawsuit on the ground stipulated by subparagraph 3) of

Section 826. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, if such a lawsuit has not been upheld by the plaintiff in the court of appeal.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023). 
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023). 
Footnote.

Section 827. Original section/article: 424. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as reworded by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall come into effect ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 828. Original section/article: 425. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acts of the court of appeal 
The court of appeal shall render the following acts:
1) a resolution in the cases provided for in subparagraphs 1), 2), 3), as well as subparagraph 6) of part one of

Section 829. Original section/article: 424. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code in the event of a new decision after consideration of the case on the merits according to the rules of the court of first instance;
2) a ruling in the cases specified in paragraph two of

Section 830. Original section/article: 409. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, subparagraph 4), as well as subparagraph 6) of paragraph one of

Section 831. Original section/article: 424. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code in case of revocation of the court judgment and taking the case to the court of appeals for consideration on the merits by the rules of the court of first instance, as well as in other cases requiring a judicial act, when the case has not been considered on the merits.
Footnote.

Section 832. Original section/article: 425. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 833. Original section/article: 426. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of appellate order 
1. Appellate order shall include the following:
1) date and place of rendering the order;
2) name of the court and structure of the court, made the order;
3) person, filing an appeal, prosecutor’s application, other persons, involved in the case, and representatives;
4) matter of a dispute or claim;
5) facts in the case established by the court of first instance, grounds guiding the court in presenting the judgement or determination; summary of the judgement of the court of first instance;
6) summary of appeal, prosecutor’s petition and relevant defences;
7) grounds, on which the court of appeal leaves unchanged or changes the judgement of the court of first instance;
8) reasons of conclusions of the court of appeal, and reference to laws, guiding the court;
9) conclusions of the court of appeal by results of consideration of the case;
10) distribution of court fees;
11) term and procedure for appeal, contest of the court order.
2. In case of unsatisfaction of appeal or prosecutor’s petition due to absence of new arguments, the reasoning part of the order shall specify only absence of grounds, stipulated by the Code, for introduction of changes into the judgement of the court of first instance or its cancellation. 
If appeal or prosecutor’s petition contain reference to arguments, not being matter of consideration in the court of first instance, the reasoning part of the appellate order shall specify grounds, on which such references and arguments are not taken into consideration and examination in the court session.
3. In case and in order, stipulated by articles 235, 237 of the Code, the court of appeal is entitled to consider issue on correction of erratas and obvious arithmetic errors, made in the order of the court of appeal, or on explanation of the order by rendering a determination, not changing the nature of appellate order.
Determination of the court of appeal on stated issues shall be enforced from the date of presentation and may be appealed or contested. 
4. The court of appeal is entitled to render additional order in case and in procedure set forth by

Section 834. Original section/article: 236. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
5. If a judge of the appellate instance, for valid reasons, is not able to make a reasoned decision within the period established by this Code, then its production shall be entrusted by the chairman of the collegium to another judge who took part in the consideration of the case. The resolution shall specify the reasons for which the absent judge is not able to issue it.
Footnote.

Section 835. Original section/article: 426. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 836. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds for cancellation or change of the court decision on appellate procedure 
1. Grounds for cancellation or change of the court decision in appellate procedure are as follows:
1) incorrect determination and clarification of circumstances relevant to the case;
2) failure to prove circumstances, relevant to the case, established by the court of first instance;
3) inconsistency of conclusions of the court of first instance, set out in the judgement, with the circumstances of the case;
4) violation or incorrect application of substantive or procedural law;
5) there is no protocol of a separate procedural action in the case, when the obligation to conduct it is provided for by this Code.
2. Regulations of the substantive law are considered to be violated or incorrectly applied, if the court:
1) did not apply applicable law;
2) applied the law, which was not applicable;
3) incorrectly interpreted the law.
3. Court judgement, correct on the merits, shall not be cancelled only due to formal reasons. Violation or incorrect application of substantive or procedural law shall constitute grounds for modification or cancellation of the judgement of the court of first instance, if this violation has caused or might caused to misjudgment.
If the court made the correct judgement, but the stated violations were in place, the order shall contain reasons, regulations of substantive and procedural law, in accordance with which the judgement shall remain unchanged.
4. Judgement of the court of first instance shall be cancelled in the following cases:
1) the case is considered in illegal membership of the court or with violation of rules of jurisdiction;
2) the case is considered in the absence of any persons, involved in the case, not properly notified on time and place of the court session, excluding cases, considered as per regulations of

Section 837. Original section/article: 133. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code;
3) regulations on language of the proceedings were violated;
4) the court resolved issue on rights and obligations of persons, not involved in the case;
5) judgement is not signed by the judge or signed by the judge, who did not review and resolve the case; 
6) there is no record of the court session in the case, when the obligation to conduct it is provided for by this Code.
5. In case of cancellation of the decision of the court of first instance on the grounds provided for by part four of

Section 838. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the court of appeal shall issue a ruling. The ruling indicates the transition to the consideration of the case according to the rules of procedure in the court of first instance, the actions to be performed by the persons participating in the case, and the timing of their commission. At the end of these actions, the case is considered, as a rule, in the same composition of the court of appeal.
In other cases, including in case of the cancellation of a court decision with the issuance of a new decision, the court of appeal considers the case in one court session with the adoption of one judicial act.
5-1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023). 
6. Failure to resolve or improper resolution of the issue on distribution of court fees shall not serve as a ground for cancellation or modification of the court judgement. Operative part of the order shall contain specification of distribution of court fees.
Footnote.

Section 839. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be brought into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 840. Original section/article: 428. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Revocation of court judgment with termination of proceedings or with leaving the claim without consideration
The judgment of the court of first instance shall be set aside on appeal due to the termination of the proceedings or to the abandonment of the lawsuit on the grounds specified in

Section 841. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and subparagraphs 2), 3), 4), 5), 9) and 10) of

Section 842. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, as well as in cases stipulated by subparagraphs 7) and 8) of paragraph one of

Section 843. Original section/article: 424. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 844. Original section/article: 428. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by Law of the RK № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be enacted ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 845. Original section/article: 429. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure and terms for appeal or prosecutor’s petition for determinations (orders) of the court of first instance 
1. Individual appeal or motion from persons, specified in

Section 846. Original section/article: 401. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, may be submitted in relation to determination of the court of first instance in cases, stipulated by the Code, and in cases, when court determination impedes further progress of case. Court determination may be appealed by persons, not involved in the case, if such determination relates to their rights and interests. 
Individual appeal or prosecutor’s petition shall be submitted within ten working days from the date of preparation of the determination in final form. 
2. Individual appeal or prosecutor’s petitioncan not be submitted in relation to other determinations of the court of first instance, including those rendered at place with entry into records of the proceedings, however, objections may be included into appeal or prosecutor’s application. 
3. In the case of filing a private complaint, bringing a petition by the prosecutor for a ruling issued during the trial, which ended with the adoption of a decision, the case shall be sent to a higher court only after the expiration of the period established for appealing the decision. Therewith, if an appeal is filed against a court decision, an appeal is brought by the prosecutor, the verification of a private complaint, the prosecutor’s petition shall be carried out by the court that considers the case on appeal. In this case, the appellate instance shall consider a private complaint, a prosecutor's petition in a collegiate composition, together with an appeal and (or) a prosecutor's petition against a court decision.
4. An individual appeal, a prosecutor’s petition shall be filed to the court, which rendered this determination with copies of documents attached relevant to number of persons participating in the case, which judge shall send or present to them. A judge after receiving an individual appeal, a prosecutor’s petition shall send a civil case or materials to the court of appeal. 
5. An individual appeal, a prosecutor’s petition shall be accepted and considered in order prescribed in this chapter for accepting and considering appeals and applications of the prosecutor. 
In accordance with procedure stipulated in

Section 847. Original section/article: 414. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, the court of appeal shall notify persons participating in the case about time and place for consideration of an individual appeal, a prosecutor’s application. Non-appearance of persons participating in the case at court session of appellate instance shall not be obstacle to their consideration. 
6. According to results of consideration of an individual appeal, a prosecutor’s application, the court of appeal shall issue a determination on: 
1) remaining a court determination unchanged, and an individual appeal, a prosecutor’s petition dismissed; 
2) abolition of court determination in full or in part and issue transfer for a new trial to the court of first instance; 
3) cancellation of court determination in full or in part and settlement of case on the merits; 
4) determination changing. 
7. The appellate court ruling shall be issued on a private complaint or a prosecutor’s petition on the return of statements of claim, securing a claim, jurisdiction, correction of clerical errors and obvious arithmetic errors, clarification of a decision, suspension of proceedings on a case, leaving statements of claim without consideration, is not subject to appeal or protest. In the cases established by this Code, the rulings of the court of appeal, blocking the possibility of further progress of the case, can be appealed and protested.
Footnote.

Section 848. Original section/article: 429. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 849. Original section/article: 430. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Special ruling of the court of appeal 
On grounds stipulated in

Section 850. Original section/article: 270. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, the court of appeal may issue a private determination.
Private determination may be appealed, protested in accordance with the procedure stipulated in

Section 851. Original section/article: 431. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legal force of judicial acts of the court of appeal 
Judicial acts of the court of appeal shall enter into force from date of their announcement.

Section 852. Original section/article: 432. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sending a judicial act and returning a case to the court of first instance 
Court of appeal after revision of case and sending (delivering) a copy of a judicial act to persons participating in the case, shall return a case to the court of first instance.

Section 853. Original section/article: 433. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for consideration of appeals (individual appeal), prosecutor’s petition received after consideration of case in appellate procedure 
1. If an appeal (individual appeal), prosecutor’s petition filed within prescribed period or after restoring missed period, shall be receipt by court of appeal after revision of case for other appeals, the court must accept such appeal or application of prosecutor to its proceedings. 
2. Based on results of consideration of appeals (individual appeal), an application of a prosecutor and, if there will be grounds, the court of appeal shall cancel the previous judicial act and adopt a new order, determination on received an appeal, an application of prosecutor. 
In absence of such grounds, the court of appeal shall issue an order, a determination to refuse to satisfy an appeal, an application of a prosecutor.
Footnote.

Section 854. Original section/article: 433. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 54. PROCEEDINGS IN COURT OF CASSATION

Section 855. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial acts which are subject to revision in cassation procedure 
1. Judicial acts of local and other courts that have entered into legal force, if the appellate procedure for appealing them is followed, judicial acts rendered in cases considered in accordance with the rules of

Section 856. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code may be reviewed in cassation.
2. Judicial acts which are not subject to revision in cassation procedure in cases: 
1) considered in a simplified procedure, stipulated in chapters 12 and 21-1 of the Code;
2) resulted to a settlement agreement, an agreement on settlement of dispute (conflict) in an order of mediation or an agreement on settlement of dispute in an order of participative procedure;
Subparagraph 3) should be excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2027). 
3) related to property interests of individuals with an amount of claim less than two thousand monthly calculation indicators and legal entities with an amount of claim less than thirty thousand monthly calculation indicators;
4) completed in connection with refusal of claim;
5) on restoration of citizens' solvency, on debt restructuring, as well as cases on disputes arising within the framework of rehabilitation and bankruptcy procedures, including the recognition of transactions concluded by the debtor or a person authorized by him as invalid, on the return of the debtor's property, on the recovery of receivables from claims of a financial, bankrupt or rehabilitation manager.
This part shall not apply to judicial acts rendered in cases heard under the rules of

Section 857. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. Judicial acts of local and other courts that have entered into legal force, in case of non-compliance with the appellate procedure for their appeal, as well as in cases specified in part two of this Article, may be reviewed in cassation procedure upon the protest of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or his deputies, the Chief Military Prosecutor, the Chief Transport Prosecutor, if there are grounds provided for in part six of

Section 858. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Note! 
Part four is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2027). 
4. Entered into legal force judicial acts of local and other courts in case of non-compliance with appeal procedure, with exception of judicial acts in cases specified in sub-paragraphs 1), 2), 3) and 4) of part two of this article, as well as judicial acts the first and appellate instances referred to in sub-paragraph 5) of part two of this article may be revised in cassation procedure after the protest of the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan on grounds provided for by

Section 859. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
Footnote.

Section 860. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 290-VІ dated December 27, 2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 20.03.2021 № 20-VII (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 179-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 861. Original section/article: 435. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Persons who have the right to file a cassation appeal, protest against judicial acts that have entered into force, refusal and their withdrawal 
Footnote. Title as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
1. A cassation appeal challenging judicial acts provided for in part one of

Section 862. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code may be filed by the parties, persons participating in the case, other persons whose interests are affected by judicial acts, and their representatives. 
1-1. A territorial subdivision of a state body shall exercise the right to file a cassation appeal challenging judicial acts provided for in part one of

Section 863. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, with the mandatory approval of a higher authority. 
2. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or his deputies, the Chief Military Prosecutor, and the Chief Transport Prosecutor have the right to bring protests against judicial acts that have entered into force both on their own initiative and at the request of the persons specified in part one of this Article, filed by them in cases provided for in part two of

Section 864. Original section/article: 54. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
The petition is attached to the protest. 
3. The person who filed the cassation complaint, including the prosecutor who filed the complaint as a party to the case, has the right to refuse the cassation complaint or withdraw it, the prosecutor who brought the protest has the right to withdraw it by filing an application to the court of cassation before considering the cassation complaint, protest. The refusal of a cassation appeal shall entail the termination of proceedings in the court of cassation. The re-filing of the cassation appeal is not allowed, and if the complaint is filed, it is returned. 
In case of withdrawal, the cassation appeal or protest may be filed again within the time limits established by part one of

Section 865. Original section/article: 436. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
Footnote.

Section 866. Original section/article: 435. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall take effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 867. Original section/article: 436. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms for contest, protesting judicial acts that have entered into force 
1. A cassation appeal, a protest against rulings, decisions of the court of appeal may be filed within six months from the date of their entry into force. 
2. If the time limit for appealing judicial acts is missed, the cassation appeal may be filed with the court of cassation after consideration by the court of first instance of the application for restoration of the time limit for appeal, and in case of refusal – after consideration of a private complaint, appeal petition of the prosecutor, appeal by the court of appeal instance. 
3. Rules of part one of this article shall not apply to cases of revision of judicial acts on grounds stipulated in part six of

Section 868. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
4. Time limit for protest lodging shall be extended by the court of cassation, if an application on cassational protest lodging was filed to a prosecutor within prescribed time limit, but no decision was made on it. Protest must indicate this.
Footnote.

Section 869. Original section/article: 436. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 870. Original section/article: 437. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Courts considering cases in cassation procedure 
The court of cassation hears cases on cassation complaints of the persons specified in part one of

Section 871. Original section/article: 435. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, as well as on the protest of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or his deputies, the Chief Military Prosecutor, the Chief Transport Prosecutor. 
Footnote.

Section 872. Original section/article: 437. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 873. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds for claiming cases and reviewing judicial acts that have entered into legal force 
Footnote. Title as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
1. A civil case is claimed from the relevant court for review in the cassation procedure by the judges of the cassation court. 
A civil case may be claimed from the relevant court for review in cassation by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, his deputies or, on their instructions, regional prosecutors and equivalent prosecutors, as well as the Chief Military Prosecutor, the Chief Transport Prosecutor. 
If a civil case is claimed from the prosecutor, the request of the court of cassation to claim the case in connection with the receipt of the cassation complaint is subject to execution by the prosecutor within thirty working days from the date of receipt of the case by the prosecutor's office.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
4. Request for requesting a case shall be executed by a court no later than five working days from date of its receipt in a court.
If case requested by prosecutor, an application on cassational protest lodging shall be a subject to consideration by a prosecutor within thirty working days from day of case receipt in prosecutor's office.
5. Grounds for revision in cassation procedure of judicial acts entered into force, specified in part one of

Section 874. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, shall be significant violations of norms of substantive and procedural laws stipulated in

Section 875. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, which led to unlawful judicial act.
6. The grounds for cassation review of judicial acts that have entered into force, specified in part three of

Section 876. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, are: 
1) the cases when the execution of the adopted resolution may lead to serious irreversible consequences for the life, health of people or for the economy and national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) cases if adopted order shall violate rights and legitimate interests of an indefinite number of persons or other public interests;
3) cases if adopted order shall violate uniformity in interpretation and application of the law by courts.
Footnote.

Section 877. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 878. Original section/article: 439. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Lodging a protest 
1. If there are grounds, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall bring a protest and send it, together with the case and the petition, to the court of cassation.
2. Copies of protest shall be sent by the General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan to persons participating in the case.
Footnote.

Section 879. Original section/article: 439. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 880. Original section/article: 440. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Protest content 
Protest must include:
1) name of a court to which the protest is brought;
2) reference to judicial acts that are appealed;
3) merits statement of case for which judicial acts were issued;
4) indication of substantial violation of the norms of substantive or procedural laws that led to issuance of an unlawful judicial act;
5) proposal or conclusions of the official who brought the protest;
6) in cases of lodging a protest on grounds stipulated in part six of

Section 881. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, a protest must indicate basis exclusivity for a revision of judicial acts;
7) document confirming fulfillment of requirements of part two of

Section 882. Original section/article: 439. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code shall be attached to a protest.

Section 883. Original section/article: 441. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The content of the cassation appeal for the cassation review of the judicial act and the petition for the cassation protest 
1. A cassation appeal for a cassation review of a judicial act, filed with the court of cassation, and a petition for a cassation protest, filed with the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chief Military and Chief Transport Prosecutor's Offices, must contain: 
1) the name of the court or official to whom the cassation appeal or petition is addressed; 
2) the name of the person filing the cassation complaint or petition for protest, and the person in whose interests they are filed, his place of residence or location, and the procedural status in the case; 
3) a list of the persons participating in the case, indicating their place of residence or location; 
4) an indication of the courts that considered the case in the first instance, the appellate instances, and the content of their decisions; 
5) an indication of a judicial act that is subject to review or appeal; 
6) indication of the essence of a violation of the norms of substantive and procedural law and what is the request of the person filing the complaint or petition for protest; 
7) in the case of filing a petition for bringing a protest on the grounds provided for in part six of

Section 884. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the petition must indicate what is the exclusivity of the grounds for reviewing judicial acts.; 
8) a cassation appeal or a petition for protest filed by a representative must contain a reference to the rule of law on which the requirements are based. 
2. If a cassation appeal or a motion for protest is filed in the interests of a person who did not participate in the case, they must indicate which rights of this person have been violated by the contested judicial act. 
3. If the cassation appeal was previously filed with the court of cassation and was returned, the reasons for the return must be indicated in the complaint. 
4. A cassation appeal or a motion for protest must be signed by the person submitting them. When submitting a complaint or a motion for protest in the form of an electronic document, they are certified by means of an electronic digital signature of the applicant or his representative. A power of attorney confirming the representative's authority is attached to the cassation appeal or motion for protest. Electronic copies of the documents are attached to the complaint or motion for protest submitted in the form of an electronic document. 
5. A document confirming the payment of the state fee in the amount established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments to the Budget" (Tax Code) must be attached to the cassation appeal on challenging a judicial act. 
Footnote.

Section 885. Original section/article: 441. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 886. Original section/article: 442. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Return of the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor 
1. The cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor is subject to return to the persons who submitted them, on the following grounds: 
1) the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor does not comply with the requirements of parts 1-1 of

Section 887. Original section/article: 435. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, Articles 440 and 441 of this Code; 2) the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor has been filed by persons who, in accordance with

Section 888. Original section/article: 435. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, have no right to challenge or protest the judicial act that has entered into legal force.; 
3) the cassation appeal or the prosecutor's protest was filed after the expiration of the period specified in part one of

Section 889. Original section/article: 436. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, and there are no valid reasons for its restoration.; 
4) prior to the consideration of the cassation appeal or the prosecutor's protest, they were withdrawn; 
5) in case of termination of the cassation proceedings in the cassation court in connection with the rejection of the cassation appeal; 
6) the cassation complaint or protest of the prosecutor has been filed with the court of cassation in violation of the appeal procedure established by this Code.; 
7) there is a decision of the court of cassation on leaving the cassation appeal without satisfaction on the complaint of the same participant in the process; 
8) no document confirming payment of the state fee is attached to the cassation appeal challenging the judicial act. 
2. The court of cassation shall issue a decision on the return of the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor on the grounds provided for in subparagraphs 3), 4) and 5) of part one of this Article. In other cases provided for by the sub-paragraphs 1), 2), 6), 7) and 8) of part one of this Article, the complaint or protest is returned by a letter from the judge within five working days. 
3. When the deficiencies that served as the basis for the return of the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor are eliminated, they may be filed again on general grounds. 
4. The prosecutor has the right to return to the applicant a petition for bringing a cassation protest in order for him to file a cassation appeal for a cassation review of the judicial act directly to the court of cassation, if this right has not been exercised by him, except in cases where the petition is filed in compliance with the requirements of

Section 890. Original section/article: 441. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code by the persons listed in part one of

Section 891. Original section/article: 112. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
Footnote.

Section 892. Original section/article: 442. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 893. Original section/article: 443. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preliminary consideration of an application 
Footnote.

Section 894. Original section/article: 443. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 895. Original section/article: 444. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Decision s made on basis of preliminary consideration of application 
Footnote.

Section 896. Original section/article: 444. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 897. Original section/article: 445. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Appointment of a judicial session of court of cassation instance 
1. After receiving the case, the cassation court performs the following actions no later than ten working days: 
1) sends a notification to the parties on the acceptance of the cassation appeal, the prosecutor's protest for consideration in the cassation instance.; 
2) sends copies of the cassation appeal, protest and attached documents to the persons participating in the case, or a notification of the possibility of familiarizing with the electronic copies via the court's Internet resource; 
3) explains to the parties the procedure for submitting a response to the cassation appeal, the prosecutor's protest in writing or in the form of an electronic document indicating the deadline for submission; 
4) notifies the parties of the right to participate in conciliation proceedings in accordance with Chapter 17 of this Code. 
2. The case must be considered within a reasonable time, but not more than six months from the date of its receipt by the court.
3. Non-appearance of persons participating in the case, duly notified about time and place of court session by court of cassation, shall not be an obstacle to case consideration.
Footnote.

Section 898. Original section/article: 445. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 899. Original section/article: 446. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A response to a cassation appeal or a protest about the revision of a judicial act 
1. The person participating in the case shall send a response to the cassation appeal, the prosecutor's protest on the revision of the judicial act, accompanied by documents confirming objections to the revision, to other persons participating in the case and to the court of cassation. 
The representative sends a response to the cassation appeal, the prosecutor's protest on the revision of the judicial act with reference to the evidence and the norms of the law on which the objections are based, accompanied by documents confirming the objections to the revision, to other persons involved in the case, and to the court of cassation. 
A document confirming the sending of copies of the response to other persons involved in the case is also attached to the review. 
2. The response shall be sent no later than ten working days from the date of receipt of a copy of the cassation appeal or protest of the prosecutor on the revision of the judicial act. 
3. The response is signed by the person participating in the case or his representative. When submitting a response in the form of an electronic document, it is verified by means of an electronic digital signature of the person submitting it or his representative. A power of attorney confirming the representative's authority is attached to the response. Electronic copies of the documents are attached to the response submitted in the form of an electronic document. 
Footnote.

Section 900. Original section/article: 446. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 901. Original section/article: 447. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Settlement agreement, an agreement on settlement of dispute (conflict) in an order of mediation and an agreement on settlement of dispute in an order of participative procedure 
1. An amicable agreement between the parties, an agreement between the parties on the settlement of a dispute (conflict) by way of mediation, or an agreement on the settlement of a dispute by way of a participatory procedure, concluded after filing a cassation complaint or protest, must be submitted to the court of cassation in writing.
If both parties present in the court petition for conciliation, the conciliation procedure shall be carried out on the day the petition is submitted by one of the judges of the collegiate composition.
An agreement of parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) in order of mediation or an agreement on settlement of dispute in order of participative procedure shall be adopted by court in accordance with the rules of articles 179 and 181 of the Code.
At court session, before an approval of settlement agreement of parties, an agreement of parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) in a order of mediation or an agreement on settlement of dispute in a order of participative procedure, a court shall explain to the parties the consequences of their procedural actions.
2. At approving a settlement of parties, an agreement of parties on settlement of dispute (conflict) in order of mediation or an agreement on settlement of dispute in a order of participative procedure, a court of cassation shall cancel judicial acts and terminate the proceedings.
Footnote.

Section 902. Original section/article: 447. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 903. Original section/article: 448. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension of judicial act execution 
The Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, upon the recommendation of the chairman of the court of cassation, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan has the right to suspend the execution of a judicial act for review in cassation for a period not exceeding six months.
Upon elimination of a need to suspend execution of judicial act, an order of suspension shall be canceled.
The decision to suspend the execution of a judicial act or to cancel the suspension shall be sent (delivered) to the justice authority or the regional chamber of private enforcement officers and the parties.
Footnote.

Section 904. Original section/article: 448. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 905. Original section/article: 449. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Subject and limits of consideration of case in cassation procedure 
1. When considering a case in cassation, the court shall verify the legality of judicial acts issued by the courts based on the materials available in the case within the arguments of the cassation appeal or protest. 
2. In the interests of legality, the court of cassation has the right to go beyond the cassation appeal or protest and verify the legality of the appealed or contested judicial act in full. 
Footnote.

Section 906. Original section/article: 449. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 907. Original section/article: 450. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure for consideration of the case by the court of cassation 
1. The presiding judge shall open the court session and announce the case to be considered, the composition of the court and the persons participating in the case present in the courtroom, to whom he explains their rights and duties. 
2. The absence of the person who filed the cassation appeal, the prosecutor, duly notified of the time and place of consideration of the case, does not exclude the possibility of continuing the court session. 
3. After the resolution of the petitions filed, the court hears the person who filed the cassation appeal, protest.
4. Cassation court shall promptly notify the prosecutor of all cases to be considered at the cassation instance.
5. The person who filed the cassation appeal and the prosecutor shall state the reasons and arguments by virtue of which, in their opinion, the contested judicial act is illegal. Then the presiding judge gives the floor in the order determined by the court to other persons participating in the case. After their speech, the prosecutor gives an opinion on the case if he participates in the court session. 
Footnote.

Section 908. Original section/article: 450. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 909. Original section/article: 451. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Powers of the cassation court 
1. Based on the results of consideration of a cassation appeal or protest, the court of cassation issues a resolution.
2. The court of cassation, in conditions that exclude the presence of unauthorized citizens and the disclosure of the secrecy of the meeting, shall take one of the following decisions:
1) leaves the ruling, the decision of the court of appeal in force, and the cassation appeal or protest without satisfaction;
2) shall cancel the determination, the appellate order and leave in force the determination, the court decision of first instance;
3) repeals the decision of the court of appeal and sends the case for a new hearing to the court of appeal with a different composition of judges in case of violations specified in

Section 910. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025); 
5) shall cancel the determination, the court decision of the first instance, the determination and appellate order in full or in part, and send the case for retrial to the court of appeal or, if the case was not considered at the court of appeal or on the merits, to the court of first instance;
6) shall cancel the court judgement, order and determination of the courts of first or appeal instance in full or in part, and terminate the proceedings on the grounds stipulated in

Section 911. Original section/article: 277. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code in connection with an approval of amicable agreement, agreement on settlement of a dispute (conflict) in order of mediation or agreement on the settlement of dispute in accordance with a participative procedure, or leave application without consideration due to grounds stipulated in sub-paragraphs 2), 3), 4), 5), 9) and 10) of

Section 912. Original section/article: 279. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code;
7) shall cancel the determination of the courts of first and appeal instances regarding the restoration of the procedural time limits for appeal, and send the case for consideration of the appeal to the appellate court;
8) shall change the court judgement, determination, order of the courts of first or appeal instance, or, canceling the court judgement, determination, order of the court of first instance or the determination, order of the court of appeal, in full or in part, without transferring the case for retrial, give a new judicial act if circumstances in cases shall be established fully and correctly by the court of first or appeal instance, but an error shall be made in the application of rules of substantive law;
9) shall leave unchanged, cancel or change the cassational judgement in cases of its revision on the grounds stipulated by part six of

Section 913. Original section/article: 438. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, with the approval of one of the procedural decisions stipulated in sub-paragraphs 1) - 8) of part two of this article.
3. With judicial acts cancellation and sending the case to retrial, court of cassation shall not have the right to prejudge issues such as authenticity or inaccuracy of any evidence, superiority of some evidence over others, what rule of substantive law should be applied, and what court decision should be made in new case consideration.
4. The court of cassation instance has no right to establish or consider as proven circumstances that were not specified in judicial acts or not refuted by it.
4-1. Indications of the need to perform procedural actions outlined in the ruling of the court of cassation, in case of revocation of judicial acts and transfer of the case for a new hearing, shall be binding on the court hearing the case again.
5. If court shall give correct judgement, but commit violations stipulated in parts one and two of

Section 914. Original section/article: 427. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, order shall reflect the motives, norms of substantive and procedural law, in accordance with which the judicial acts remain unchanged.
6. The operative part of the resolution shall be announced in the courtroom.
7. The final resolution must be prepared within ten working days. 
8. Consideration of the case in the cassation instance in case of cancellation by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the decision of the cassation instance with the referral of the case for a new judicial review to the court of cassation instance is carried out according to the rules of this chapter.
Footnote.

Section 915. Original section/article: 451. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 84-VII of 20.12.2021 (shall be put into effect ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.03.2023 № 216-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 916. Original section/article: 452. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of cassational judgement 
1. Cassational judgement must comply with the requirements stipulated by this Code for order of court of appellate instance. Cassational judgement shall be signed by all the judges who approved the court judgement.
2. In cases and in manner provided for in articles 235 and 237 of the Code, court of cassation shall have the right to consider the issue of correcting misprints and obvious arithmetic errors, to clarify the cassational judgement made by the court of the cassation instance, that shall be a subject of issuance of determination, and in the case stipulated in

Section 917. Original section/article: 236. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, an additional cassational judgement shall be issued.

Section 918. Original section/article: 453. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Entry into force of cassational judgement 
Cassational judgement shall be enforced from date of its announcement.

Section 919. Original section/article: 454. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Proceedings after the cancellation of the court judgement, determination, court order 
1. After cancellation of judicial acts in the cassation procedure, the case shall be considered in a general manner.
2. A cassation appeal, protest, or prosecutor's petition against new judicial acts issued after the cancellation of previous judicial acts on appeal or cassation may be filed or brought on general grounds, regardless of the reasons for their cancellation.
Footnote.

Section 920. Original section/article: 454. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025). 
Chapter 54-1. Review of judicial acts in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Footnote. The Law was supplemented by Chapter 54-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective from 01.07.2025).

Section 921. Original section/article: 454-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds for review of judicial acts that have entered into legal force by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan may, in exceptional cases, review judicial acts that have entered into legal force after their consideration in the cassation instance upon the recommendation of a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or a protest by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if: 
1) the adopted judicial acts may lead to serious irreversible consequences for the life, health of people or for the economy and national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
2) the adopted judicial acts violate the rights and legitimate interests of an indefinite group of persons or other public interests; 
3) the adopted judicial acts violate the uniformity in the interpretation and application of the norms of law by the courts. 
2. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan has the right to bring a protest to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the review of judicial acts that have entered into force, both on his own initiative and at the request of participants in civil proceedings on the grounds provided for in part one of this Article. 
Petitions for bringing protests are considered in accordance with the procedure established by Articles 438, 439, 440, 441 and 442 of this Code.

Section 922. Original section/article: 454-2. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Making a recommendation by a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
A judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at the request of the participants in the civil procedure on the need to review judicial acts that have entered into force, may request a civil case to be examined. Based on the results of the examination of the case, if there are grounds provided for in

Section 923. Original section/article: 454-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, he makes a recommendation stating: 
1) date and place of recommendation; 
2) the case on which the recommendation was made, indicating the contested judicial acts; 
3) the motives and arguments for making a recommendation. 
In the case of a petition by the participants in the civil procedure to suspend the execution of a judicial act, the judge indicates this in the recommendation.

Section 924. Original section/article: 454-3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Suspension of the execution of a judicial act that has entered into legal force 
The Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan has the right to suspend the execution of a judicial act that has entered into force until it is reviewed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 925. Original section/article: 454-4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Review of judicial acts that have entered into force in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. The parties shall be notified of the time and place of the review of judicial acts that have entered into legal force. 
2. Judicial acts that have entered into legal force shall be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan within a reasonable period of time. 
3. The participation of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan or, on his instructions, subordinate prosecutors of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan is mandatory. 4. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if the grounds provided for in

Section 926. Original section/article: 454-1. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code are established, shall adopt one of the following decisions:: 
1) leaves the decision of the court of cassation unchanged; 
2) modifies the decision of the court of cassation, leaving unchanged or canceling the decision of the court of appeal or the decision of the court of first instance; 
3) repeals the decisions of the courts of cassation and appeal, changing the decision of the court of first instance or leaving it unchanged; 
4) cancels the decision of the court of cassation and sends the case for a new judicial review to the court of cassation.; 
5) repeals the decision of the court of cassation, as well as the decision of the appellate instance and the decision of the court of first instance and terminates the case. 
5. The resolution of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan comes into legal force from the date of its announcement and is final. 
The instructions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the need to perform the procedural actions set out in the resolution are mandatory when sending the case for a new hearing to the court of cassation.
Chapter 55. PROCEEDINGS ON REVISION OF JUDICIAL ACTS IN NEWLY 
DISCOVERED OR NEW FACTS

Section 927. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Ground for revision 
1. Judgements, determinations and orders have entered into force may be revised due to newly defined or new circumstances.
For revision of judgements, determination and orders under newly defined or new circumstances, grounds shall be legal facts, essentials for the correct resolution of a previously considered case that arose or occurred, but they became known after the judicial act entered into legal force.
2. For revision of judgements, determination and orders under newly defined or new circumstances, grounds shall be:
1) knowingly false testimony of a witness, knowingly false expert opinion, knowingly incorrect translation, forgery of documents or physical evidence, established by court sentence, order, resolutions of state bodies and officials carrying out the functions of criminal prosecution, entered into legal force, and resulted in an illegal decision or unreasonable decision;
2) criminal offense of parties, other persons participating in case, or their representatives or a criminal offense of judges during case trial, established by court sentence, order, resolutions of state bodies and officials carrying out the functions of criminal prosecution, entered into legal force;
3) cancellation of judgement, sentence, determination or order of the court or order of another state body that served as basis for judgement, determination or order.
3. New circumstances include:
1) cancellation of judicial act, which had a prejudicial value in proceeding;
2) court decision entered into legal force on invalidating the transaction on the basis of which judicial act was issued; 
3) recognition by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan of laws and other regulatory legal acts unconstitutional, with the application of which the judicial act was issued;
4) the annulment of the arbitral decision, the enforcement of which has been issued by a judicial act.
Footnote.

Section 928. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 929. Original section/article: 456. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Courts reviewing judicial acts due to newly discovered or new circumstances 
1. court decision of the first instance entered into legal force shall be revised according to newly discovered or new circumstances by court that made the judgement.
2. Revision under newly discovered or new circumstances of determinations, court judgements, orders of the appeal and cassation instances changing the court decision of first instance or deciding a new order, shall be made by court that changing court decision or making a new one.

Section 930. Original section/article: 457. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application 
1. Application for revision of court judgement, determination or order on newly discovered or new circumstances shall be filed by parties, other persons participating in the case, or prosecutor in the court that made the court judgement, determination or order within three months from day of circumstances discovering that serve as basis for revision.
2. Application must be considered within fifteen working days from date of its receipt, and in courts of appeal and cassation instances within specified period from date of case receipt in the relevant court.

Section 931. Original section/article: 458. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application form and content 
1. Application shall be signed by person submitting application or his/her authorized representative.
2. In application for revision of the judicial act due to newly discovered or new circumstances the following should be indicated:
1) name of court to which the application is submitted;
2) name of person submitting the application and other persons participating in the case, their location or residence place;
3) date of judicial act, subject of dispute, name of the court that adopted judicial act requested for revision on newly discovered or new circumstances by an applicant;
4) requirement of person submitting the application; newly discovered or new circumstances stipulated by

Section 932. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code and which, and by the applicant's opinion, are may be basis for revising a judicial act for newly discovered or new circumstances, with reference to documents confirming discovering or identifying of this circumstance;
5) list of attached documents.
Application may also include phone numbers, fax numbers, e-mail addresses of persons participating in the case, and other information.
3. Person submitting application shall be obliged to send copies of the application and attached documents to other persons participating in the case.
4. Following documents must be attached to an application:
1) copies of documents confirming newly discovered or new circumstances;
2) copy of judicial act, which shall be revised under an applicant;
3) document confirming a referral other persons participating in the case, copies of application and documents;
4) power of attorney or other document confirming authority of person to sign application.

Section 933. Original section/article: 459. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Submitting date calculating for application 
Submitting date for application shall be calculated:
1) in cases stipulated in sub-paragraphs 1) and 2) of part two of

Section 934. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code - from day a sentence, court judgement, decision s of state bodies and officials carrying out functions of criminal prosecution in a criminal case shall come into force;
2) in cases stipulated in sub-paragraph 3) of part two of

Section 935. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code - from date the court judgement, sentence, determination, court order or decision of another state body shall come into force, by which said acts shall be annulled and served as basis for the decision;
3) in cases stipulated in sub-paragraph 1) of part three of

Section 936. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, from date the judicial act shall enter into legal force by which judicial act of prejudicial significance were canceled;
4) in cases stipulated in sub-paragraph 2) of part three of

Section 937. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code - from date the judicial act shall enter into legal force by which a transaction shall be declared invalid;
5) in the cases provided for by subparagraph 3) of part three of

Section 938. Original section/article: 455. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code – from the date of publication in the mass media of the regulatory resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 939. Original section/article: 459. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 940. Original section/article: 460. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application acceptance to proceeding in court 
An application for review of a judicial act due to newly discovered or new circumstances shall be considered as accepted for proceedings by the relevant court from the date of its receipt.
Footnote.

Section 941. Original section/article: 460. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 942. Original section/article: 461. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application return 
Footnote.

Section 943. Original section/article: 461. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 944. Original section/article: 462. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration of application 
The participants of the case shall be notified of the receipt of an application for revision of the decision, ruling or resolution due to newly discovered or new circumstances.
The court shall have the right to consider such application alone or in a court session, however, the absence of the participants of the case, duly notified of the time and place of the court session, shall not be an obstacle to its consideration.
Footnote.

Section 945. Original section/article: 462. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 946. Original section/article: 463. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court ruling on the application for revision 
1. The court shall issue a reasoned ruling on an application for revision of a decision, ruling or resolution on newly discovered or new circumstances:
1) on the return of the application on the grounds provided for in part two of this Article;
2) on refusal to review a judicial act;
3) on the satisfaction of the application and cancellation of the decision, ruling or ruling.
2. The grounds for returning an application for review of a case due to newly discovered or new circumstances shall be: 
1) non-compliance with the requirements for the form and content of the application;
2) submission (signing) by a citizen who does not have the authority to submit (sign) it, or by an incompetent citizen;
3) non-compliance with the rules established by

Section 947. Original section/article: 456. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
4) expiration of the deadline for applying in the absence of a petition for its restoration or refusal to restore the missed deadline;
5) withdrawal by the applicant.
3. The rulings of the courts of the first, appellate and cassation instances on the return of an application, on the refusal to cancel or on the cancellation of a judicial act due to newly discovered or new circumstances may be appealed, contested, reviewed at the request or protest of the prosecutor in accordance with this Code.
Footnote.

Section 948. Original section/article: 463. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 56. PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATIONS FOR CANCELLATION OF
ARBITRATION AWARDS

Section 949. Original section/article: 464. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application submission for cancellation of arbitration award 
1. Application for cancellation of arbitration award may be filed by parties in arbitration proceedings, by third parties not involved in the case, but with regard to rights and obligations of which the arbitration made a decision on the grounds provided by law, within one month from day of receiving arbitration award.
2. A petition to cancel an arbitral decision shall be filed with the relevant court of appeal of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
1) at place of dispute consideration by arbitration, if arbitration award shall be made in territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) at location of permanent arbitration, if arbitration award shall be made under law of the Republic of Kazakhstan in a foreign state;
3) at place of arbitration formation in the Republic of Kazakhstan, if arbitration award shall be made under law of the Republic of Kazakhstan in a foreign state.
3. Judge shall return application, if court decision cancellation deadline specified in part one of this article has expired and there are no grounds for its restoration in accordance with the Code.
Footnote.

Section 950. Original section/article: 464. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 951. Original section/article: 465. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application consideration 
1. Application for cancellation of arbitration award shall be considered by court within ten working days from the moment of initiation of proceedings according to rules provided for by the Code.
With application submission by a third party, judge shall have right to extend case proceedings for up to one month, if it is necessary to submit additional evidence.
1-1. A petition to cancel an arbitral decision shall be considered by an appellate court in a collegiate composition of at least three judges of the collegium in accordance with the rules of

Section 952. Original section/article: 3. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
2. Parties to arbitration proceedings, as well as third parties, if they appealed to cancel the arbitration award, shall be notified by court of time and place of court session. Non-appearance of these persons, who were duly notified of time and place of court session, shall not impede case consideration.
3. During case consideration, court shall identify presence or absence of grounds for arbitration award cancellation, provided for by law, by examining evidence submitted to court in support of stated claims and objections.
3-1. The court shall has the right, upon the request of one of the parties, to suspend for a fixed period the proceedings on a petition for reversal the arbitral award for reopening the arbitral proceeding or take other measures to eliminate the grounds for reversal the arbitral award. 
If the arbitrators make a new decision, the party shall have the right, within the period established by the court, without submitting a claim, to petition for reversal the decision in relation to reopening arbitral proceeding or changes in the original decision.
4. Following examination of the petition to set aside the arbitral award, the court shall issue a ruling either setting aside the arbitral award or dismissing the petition. An appeal may be lodged against the court’s ruling, or a petition may be filed by the public prosecutor as per this Code.
5. In the ruling on the cancellation of the arbitral decision, the court shall resolve the issues of the cancellation of the ruling on the transfer of the arbitral decision for enforcement.
Footnote.

Section 953. Original section/article: 465. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI dated 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.06.2020 № 342-VI (shall come into effect ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 954. Original section/article: 4. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
INTERNATIONAL PROCESS Chapter 57. PROCEEDINGS ON CASES WITH PARTICIPATION OF FOREIGN PERSONS

Section 955. Original section/article: 466. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Competence of courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cases involving foreign persons 
1. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider cases involving foreign persons, if respondent organization is located or citizen-respondent has a residence in territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall also consider cases involving foreign persons, if:
1) management body, branch or representative office of a foreign person shall be located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) defendant shall have property in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) in case of collecting alimony and establishing paternity, an applicant shall have a place of residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) in case of compensation for damage caused by injury, other damage to health or breadwinner's death, the damage shall be caused in the Republic of Kazakhstan or the claimant shall have a place of residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) in case of compensation for damage caused to property, an action or other circumstance afforded the claim for compensation for damage shall take place in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) claim shall arise under a contract which full or partial execution shall take place or took place in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) claim shall arise from unjust enrichment happened in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) in case of divorce, applicant shall be a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan or at least one of spouses shall be a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9) in defamation case of honor, dignity and business reputation, applicant shall be a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
10) in case of rights protection of personal data subjects, including compensation for damages and (or) compensation for moral harm, the applicant shall be a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
11) the cases are based on lawsuits and statements by the prosecutor in cases provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return of illegally acquired assets to the state".
3. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider other cases, which shall be felt within their competence by law and (or) an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 956. Original section/article: 466. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 957. Original section/article: 467. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Exclusive competence of the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan with participation of foreign persons 
1. Exclusive competence of the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall include:
1) cases related to right on real estate located in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) cases involving claims against carriers arising from contracts of carriage, if carriers are located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) cases of divorce of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan with non-citizens or stateless persons, if both spouses have a place of residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall become effective upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
2. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consider cases of special proceedings, if:
1) applicant in affirmative proceeding is a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or an affirmative fact had or is taking place in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) citizen in respect of whom an application is filed for adoption, for restriction of legal capacity or for declaring him/her incompetent, for declaring a minor as fully capable (emancipation), for compulsory hospitalization to a hospital of an organization providing mental health care, for an extension the period of compulsory hospitalization of a citizen with mental, behavioural disorders (diseases), compulsory treatment for tuberculosis, is a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan or has a place of residence in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) citizen related to issue of ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of being a missing person or declaring of his/her dead is a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan or had the last known place of residence in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and determination of rights and obligations of citizens and organizations residing or located in the Republic of Kazakhstan depends on resolution of this issue;
4) property related to application for ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of its ownerless is located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) security in respect of which an application was submitted for ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of loss of rights and restoration of corresponding rights to it (procedure to declare lost documents void), issued by a citizen or organization residing or located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
7) notarial actions under appeal (refusal to commit them) were committed by a notary or another body of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 958. Original section/article: 467. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.06.2020 № 351-VI (shall come into effect from 01.07.2021); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall come into effect upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); No. 241-VIII of 17.12.2025 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 959. Original section/article: 468. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Contractual jurisdiction 
Competence of a foreign court may be considered under a written agreement of parties, except the cases provided for by

Section 960. Original section/article: 31. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code. If there is such an agreement, court leaves application without consideration by petition from defendant, if such one is submitted before start proceedings of case on the merits.

Section 961. Original section/article: 469. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Competence invariability 
Case accepted by the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with regulation of competence stipulated by legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be allowed essentially, at least later due to changes in citizenship, place of residence of the parties and other circumstances affecting the competence, it became jurisdiction of court of another state.

Section 962. Original section/article: 470. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Effect of proceedings in a foreign court 
1. Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall leave application without consideration, and terminate the proceedings, if court decision have already been given in a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and for the same reasons by a court of a foreign state with which the Republic of Kazakhstan has concluded an international treaty on mutual ACKNOWLEDGEMENT and execution court judgements.
2. Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall leave application without consideration, and terminate the proceedings, if court of a foreign state has a previously opened case on a dispute between the same parties, on the same subject and on the same reasons, the decision on which is subject to ACKNOWLEDGEMENT in the Republic of Kazakhstan according to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Provisions of this article shall not affect cases if case shall be covered within exclusive competence of courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 963. Original section/article: 471. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Jurisdiction 
Jurisdiction referred by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the competence of courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan is determined according to the jurisdiction rules stipulated in Chapter 3 of the Code.

Section 964. Original section/article: 472. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedural rights and obligations of foreign persons 
1. Non-citizens and stateless persons, foreign and international organizations (hereinafter referred to as foreign persons) shall have the right to appeal to the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan to protect their violated or disputed rights, freedoms and legally protected interests.
2. Foreign persons shall apply the procedural rights and perform procedural duties on an equal basis with citizens and legal entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise provided for by an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. In courts, judicial proceedings involving foreign persons shall be carried out in accordance with the Code, other laws and international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. The Republic of Kazakhstan may establish reciprocal restrictions (retortion) in relation to foreign persons of those states in which special restrictions on procedural rights of citizens and organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan are allowed.

Section 965. Original section/article: 473. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Civil legal capacity of foreign and stateless persons 
1. Civil legal capacity of foreign and stateless persons shall be determined by their personal law.
2. Personal law of foreign person shall be law of state to which person is belong.
3. If citizen has several foreign citizenships, the personal law shall be a law of state with which person shall be closely connected, including residence place location.
4. Personal law of a stateless person shall be the law of state in which the person has a permanent residence, and if such one shall be absent then the law of state of his usual residence.
5. Person who is not procedurally capable under his personal law may be recognized as capable in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if shall have legal capacity in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 966. Original section/article: 474. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legal standing of foreign and international organization 
1. Legal standing of foreign organization shall be the law of foreign state, in accordance with which was established. Foreign organization without legal standing under this law may be recognized as legal standing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Legal standing of international organization shall be stipulated on basis of an international treaty in accordance with which it is established, or other international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 967. Original section/article: 475. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acknowledgement of documents issued by foreign authorities 
1. Documents issued, compiled or certified in prescribed form by foreign regulatory authorities, performed outside the Republic of Kazakhstan under the laws of foreign countries in relation to organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan or foreign persons shall be accepted by courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan with consular legalization or apostille, unless otherwise provided for by legislation and (or) international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Upon submission to the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, documents compiled in a foreign language shall be provided with a properly certified translation into language of judicial proceedings.

Section 968. Original section/article: 476. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legal assistance instructions 
1. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall provide legal assistance in scope stipulated in legislation and (or) international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of legal assistance shall include delivery and forwarding of notices and other documents, as well as other procedural actions, in particular, hearing of parties, witnesses, examination, on-site inspection, other procedural actions, implementation of which in a framework of legal assistance is provided by law or international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, or on a basis of reciprocity.
2. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall execute submitted them in order prescribed by law or international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, or on a basis of reciprocity of foreign courts to execute specific procedural actions, except in cases, if:
1) execution of instruction may lead to damage the sovereignty of the Republic of Kazakhstan or threaten the security of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) competence of court shall not include execution of instruction;
3) in other cases stipulated by international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Execution of instructions of foreign courts on implementation of certain procedural actions shall be carried out in order prescribed by the Code, unless otherwise provided for by international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan may address to foreign courts with instructions on implementation procedural actions.
5. Procedure for relations of courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan with foreign courts shall be determined by law and international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan, or on a basis of reciprocity.
6. The instruction detailing the application of legislation on the provision of legal assistance by courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan and seeking legal assistance from courts of foreign states is approved by the authorized state body in the field of judicial administration.
7. Acceptance of requests for legal assistance addressed to the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan from courts and competent authorities of foreign states may be carried out by the authorized body for asset recovery, other competent authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this is provided for by international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 969. Original section/article: 476. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 21.11.2024 № 136-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 970. Original section/article: 477. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Immunity of foreign state 
Foreign state shall apply jurisdictional immunity in the Republic of Kazakhstan, including judicial immunity, immunity from security for claim and immunity from forced execution of a judicial act, except in cases stipulate in the Code.

Section 971. Original section/article: 478. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial immunity 
In accordance with provisions of the Code, foreign state shall not apply judicial immunity in the Republic of Kazakhstan if it shall waive judicial immunity or immunity shall not be applied to foreign state in accordance with

Section 972. Original section/article: 484. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, as well as if it shall carry out activities other than state sovereignty implementation, including in cases specified in articles 484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490 and 491 of the Code.

Section 973. Original section/article: 479. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Immunity refusal of foreign state in respect of counterclaim 
1. Foreign state commenced a suit in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be deemed to have agreed to waive of judicial immunity in respect of any counterclaim based on the same legal relations or facts as original lawsuit of this state.
2. Foreign state commenced a suit in a court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be deemed to have agreed to waive of judicial immunity in relation to original claim.

Section 974. Original section/article: 480. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Foreign state consent on jurisdiction of court of the Republic of Kazakhstan and judicial immunity refusal 
1. It is recognized that foreign state has agreed to waive judicial immunity if it expressly consented on jurisdiction of court of the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding relevant issue or case, in particular:
1) in international treaty;
2) in written agreement that is not an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) by an application to court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or written notification in under of specific proceeding.
2. Consent of foreign state to waive judicial immunity shall not be considered as its consent to waive immunity from security for claim and immunity from forced execution of a judicial act.
3. Consent of foreign state to that application of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be considered as consent to waive judicial immunity.

Section 975. Original section/article: 481. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation of foreign state in court proceeding 
1. It is recognized that foreign state has agreed to waive judicial immunity if that state was a party to proceedings opened on its initiative in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or entered into merits proceedings in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or took any other action on merits of case. However, if state shall prove in court that prior it took such actions, it could not have known the facts giving grounds to declare immunity, it shall invoke immunity on basis of these facts immediately after they became known.
2. Foreign state is not considered as renounced judicial immunity if it shall enter into proceedings in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or take any other action in order to refer to immunity or provide evidence of its right to property that is a subject of proceedings.
3. Appearance of representative of foreign state in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan to give testimony is not considered as consent of this state to waive judicial immunity.
4. If a foreign state shall not participate in court proceedings of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this circumstance in itself cannot be interpreted as its consent to waive judicial immunity.

Section 976. Original section/article: 482. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refusal of a foreign state from immunity in relation to arbitration proceeding 
If a foreign state consented in writing to arbitration of disputes with its participation resulted or may arise in the future, it is recognized that, in relation to these disputes, it voluntarily agreed to waive judicial immunity on matters relating to execute functions of arbitration by court of the Republic Kazakhstan.

Section 977. Original section/article: 483. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Withdrawal of consent to waive immunity 
1. Consent of a foreign state to waive judicial immunity, immunity from security for claim and immunity from forced execution of judicial act cannot be revoked, except if withdrawal such consent shall be expressly provided by agreement with another party in dispute.
2. Consent of foreign state to waive judicial immunity shall be applied to all stages of proceedings.

Section 978. Original section/article: 484. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of foreign state immunity in case of jurisdictional immunity violation of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Foreign state shall not apply judicial immunity in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as immunity from security for claim and from forced execution of judicial act in case of violation by such foreign state of jurisdictional immunity of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its property.

Section 979. Original section/article: 485. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of foreign state in business-specific disputes 
1. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes arising from business activities carried out by this state in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes arising from civil law transactions of non-entrepreneurial activity that this state has committed or with which connected in a different way than in state sovereignty implementation.
3. In decision whether a transaction connected with or executed by foreign state is recognised as activity related with state sovereignty implementation, the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take into account nature and purpose of such transaction.

Section 980. Original section/article: 486. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of a foreign state in disputes related to participation in legal entities 
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes concerning its participation in commercial and non-commercial legal entities established or having a principal place of business in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 981. Original section/article: 487. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of a foreign state in disputes relating to property rights 
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes concerning:
1) its rights to real estate located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as its obligations related to such property;
2) its real estate rights arising on grounds not related to state sovereignty implementation by this state.

Section 982. Original section/article: 488. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of a foreign state in disputes on compensation for damage (damnification) 
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes on compensation for damage to life and (or) health, property by this state if the claim arose from causing damage (damnification) by action (inaction) or a circumstance had taken place in full or partly in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 983. Original section/article: 489. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of a foreign state in disputes relating to objects with intellectual property rights 
1. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes concerning identification and execution of its rights to intellectual property.
2. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes concerning an alleged violation of other persons rights for intellectual property by this state.

Section 984. Original section/article: 490. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-application of judicial immunity of foreign state on disputes under labour legislation 
1. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state shall not use judicial immunity in disputes under labour legislation arising between this state and an employee regarding work that was or should be performed in whole or in part in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Regulation of part one of this article shall not be applied if:
1) employee is a citizen of state that recruited him/her as of the moment initiating proceedings, except for case if employee has a permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) employee was recruited to perform duties on state sovereignty implementation;
3) subject for dispute is a conclusion or renewal of an employment contract.

Section 985. Original section/article: 491. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Foreign state Immunity in disputes relating to operation of marine vessels and inland navigation vessels 
1. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign state, that owns or operates marine vessel or inland navigation vessel, shall not use judicial immunity in disputes concerning operation of this vessel or carriage of cargo by this vessel, if the vessel was operated for other than state non-commercial purposes at the moment of occurrence of basis leaded the claim.
2. Regulation of part one of this article shall not be applied to:
1) military ships and military auxiliary vessels, as well as cargo transported by such ships and vessels;
2) cargo owned by state and used or intended for use solely for state non-commercial purposes, regardless to vessel transported the cargo.
3. For purposes of this article application, disputes relating to vessel operation shall be understood as, in particular, disputes in relation to: 
1) ship collisions, port and hydraulic structures damage or other shipping accidents; 
2) assistance, rescue and general average; 
3) supplies, repairs and other works, services related to vessel;
4) effects of marine pollution;
5) lifting of sunken property (removal of sunken property).
Footnote.

Section 986. Original section/article: 491. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2022 № 174-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 987. Original section/article: 492. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Immunity of foreign state from security for claim and forced execution of a judicial act 
Foreign state shall use immunity from security for claim and forced execution of a judicial act, except cases if:
1) foreign state expressly consented to waive the types of jurisdictional immunity specified in this article in one of the ways provided in part one of

Section 988. Original section/article: 480. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code;
2) foreign state has reserved or otherwise designated property in discharge of claims which is a subject of proceedings in court of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) property of a foreign state located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be used and (or) intended for use by a foreign state for purposes other than state sovereignty implementation.

Section 989. Original section/article: 493. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Property used for purposes of state sovereignty implementation 
Property of a foreign state shall not considered as property used and / or intended for use by foreign state for purposes other than state sovereignty implementation (sub-paragraph 3)

Section 990. Original section/article: 492. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code), in particular, the followings:
1) property (including money on bank account) used or intended to perform functions of diplomatic missions of foreign state or its consular agencies, special missions, representative offices of international organizations, delegations of foreign state in bodies of international organizations or at international conferences;
2) military property and (or) used in peacekeeping operations recognized by the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) cultural valuables or archival documents, not for sale or not intended for sale.

Section 991. Original section/article: 494. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Judicial proceedings involving foreign state 
Cases involving a foreign state shall be considered according to rules of courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including jurisdiction rules applicable to legal entities, in particular foreign legal entities, unless otherwise provided for by the Code or other laws.

Section 992. Original section/article: 495. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Resolving procedure for issue of judicial immunity of foreign state 
1. Issue whether a foreign state shall use judicial immunity shall be considered during court session with call of parties by the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. If the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan determines that foreign state has judicial immunity, the proceedings shall be terminated insofar as dispute shall not be a subject to court proceeding.

Section 993. Original section/article: 496. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court decision of the Republic of Kazakhstan on security for claim and forced execution of a judicial act under disputes with participation of a foreign state 
1. Issues on security for claim and forced execution of a judicial act in respect of foreign state shall be considered by court of the Republic of Kazakhstan depending on presence or absence of immunity from security for claim and forced execution of a judicial act of foreign state, respectively.
2. In cases if failure to take immediate measures may make it difficult or impossible to execute the judicial act, in particular, due to high degree of probability of destruction, damage, transfer of property or other order to prevent execution of judicial act, the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the absence of sufficient grounds for acknowledgement that foreign state shall use an immunity, shall have a right, at the request of party, to take measures on security for claim, and to foreclose on the property of a foreign state at the stage of enforcement proceedings. Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall issue determination on imposing arrest on property of foreign state, other measures implementation related with security for claim, and also on levying a penalty on property of foreign state, which can be appealed in order stipulated by the Code. 
3. Decision shall not deprive a foreign state of right to appeal it with reference to appropriate immunity.

Section 994. Original section/article: 497. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legislative reciprocity application 
1. With considering a lawsuit brought against a foreign state in a court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, court shall apply reciprocity principle at request of a claimant or another person involved in case.
2. For disputes related to business activities, as well as for disputes arising from civil law transactions in non-business activities, proving the scope of jurisdictional immunity granted to the Republic of Kazakhstan in respective foreign state may be entrusted to a person presented an application on reciprocity principle.
3. If it is proved that in a foreign state in respect of which jurisdictional immunity has arisen, the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be granted jurisdictional immunity to a more limited extent than that granted to a foreign state by virtue of the Code, therefore court of the Republic of Kazakhstan in solving this issue on the basis of reciprocity, shall be entitled to proceed from the same scope of jurisdictional immunity as the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have in the relevant foreign state.

Section 995. Original section/article: 498. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Assistance to court of the Republic of Kazakhstan in application of the Code 
1. At request of the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan or on own initiative, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall provide an conclusion connected with application of this Code in relation to a foreign state, in particular, whether party is a foreign state within issue of jurisdictional immunity, whether there has been an activity connected with state sovereignty implementation, to what extent the jurisdictional immunity of the Republic of Kazakhstan in a foreign state shall be granted.
2. In accordance with the established procedure, the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan may request for assistance and clarification under issues that are a subject of a dispute also to other bodies and organizations in the Republic of Kazakhstan and abroad or to involve experts. Findings and explanations shall be evaluated by the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, taking into account all evidences in case.

Section 996. Original section/article: 499. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Notification and delivery of procedural documents to a foreign state 
1. Notification and other judicial documents about case initiation in the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be sent to foreign state through diplomatic channels. Date of delivery of these documents shall be a date of receipt by executive authority in charge of foreign affairs of relevant state.
2. In the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, instructions on documents delivery to foreign state and other procedural actions in connection with case initiated against it shall be executed in order prescribed by law and (or) international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan regulating the provision of legal assistance.

Section 997. Original section/article: 500. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Default judgement 
Court decision with respect to foreign state non participated in proceedings in the court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be made, provided that court shall determine that:
1) requirements of

Section 998. Original section/article: 499. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code are met;
2) not less than six months have passed since date of sending instruction to deliver documents on initiation of proceedings against foreign state;
3) in accordance with provisions of the Code, state shall not use judicial immunity.

Section 999. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acknowledgement and execution of foreign court judgement, arbitration awards of foreign arbitrations 
1. Court judgements, resolutions and rulings on approval of settlement agreements, foreign judicial orders, as well as arbitration awards of foreign arbitrations shall be recognized and executed by the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if ACKNOWLEDGEMENT and execution of such acts shall be provided for by legislation and (or) international treaty ratified by Republic of Kazakhstan, either on basis of reciprocity.
2. Conditions and procedure for acknowledgement and execution of acts specified in part one of this article shall be determined by law, unless otherwise provided by an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Acts specified in part one of this article may be appealed for enforced execution within three years from date of their entry into force. Period missed for a good reason may be restored by court of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order stipulated in

Section 1000. Original section/article: 502. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acknowledgement of foreign court decision not required of execution 
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreign court decision shall be recognized as not required execution by their nature, following:
1) affecting the personal status of exclusively citizens of the state where court issued a judgement;
2) on divorce or invalidation ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of marriages between citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign persons, if at time of divorce, at least one of spouses lived outside the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) on termination or invalidation ACKNOWLEDGEMENT of marriages between citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if at the time of divorce, both spouses lived outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 1001. Original section/article: 503. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Forced execution of foreign court judgements, arbitration awards of foreign arbitrations 
1. If acts specified in part one of

Section 1002. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code are not executed voluntarily within time limits stipulated in them, party of judicial and arbitration proceeding in whose favor these acts shall be issued shall be entitled to appeal for their forced execution to court consideration or at debtor's residence place or at location of body of legal entity, otherwise at property location of debtor, if residence place or location shall be unknown.
2. Applications for issuance of writ of execution shall be supplemented with duly certified authentic acts specified in part one of

Section 1003. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, or duly certified copies thereof, and if available, a true arbitration agreement or duly certified copy thereof. If specified acts or arbitration agreements shall be stated in a foreign language, party must submit a duly certified translation into Kazakh or Russian.
3. Applications for issuance of a writ of execution may be filed no later than three years from date of expiration of period for voluntary execution of acts specified in part one of

Section 1004. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code.
4. Application for issuance of writ of execution, which was filed with omission of prescribed period or to which the necessary documents were not attached, shall be returned by court without consideration, and there for a determination shall be made for which a private complaint or a petition by prosecutor may be filed in order stipulated in the Code.
5. Court shall have a right to restore time limit for filing an application for issuance of a writ of execution if it shall find reasons for missing the specified term valid. 
6. Application for issuance of writ of execution shall be considered by judge individually within fifteen working days from the date of receipt of an application to court.
7. Court shall notify a debtor of applications received from recoverer about forced execution of acts specified in part one of

Section 1005. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, as well as time and place of their consideration at a court session. Recoverer shall be also notified of place and time of consideration of application. Non-appearance of debtor or recoverer at the court session shall not an obstacle to consideration of application, if debtor shall not submit a petition to postpone consideration of application with indicating appropriate reasons for not being able to appear at court session.
8. During considering applications for issuing a writ of execution to forced execution of a judicial acts specified in part one of

Section 1006. Original section/article: 501. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, court shall not be entitled to revise them on the merits.
9. According to results of application consideration, court shall determine whether to issue a writ of execution or to refuse in its issuance.
Court determination on issuance of writ of execution is subject to immediate implementation.
Footnote.

Section 1007. Original section/article: 503. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1008. Original section/article: 504. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refusal to issue and issuance of writ of execution 
Refusal to issue and issuance of writs of execution shall be carried out according to the regulations stipulated in Chapter 20 of the Code.
Chapter 58. FINAL PROVISIONS

Section 1009. Original section/article: 505. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Bringing into force of the Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. This Code comes into force on January 1, 2016.
2. To recognize as invalid the following legislative acts from January 1, 2016:
1) Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 13, 1999 (Gazette of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 1999, № 18,

Section 1010. Original section/article: 42. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, 44);
2) Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 13, 1999 "On Bringing Into Force Of The Civil Procedure Code Of The Republic Of Kazakhstan" (Gazette of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 1999, №18,

Section 1011. Original section/article: 52. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
). 
3. Judgement of arbitration courts issued prior to legislative act comes into force on arbitration may be reversed in order provided by chapter 56 of this Code, and writs of execution may be issued for them in manner stipulated by chapter 20 of this Code
4. Judicial acts issued prior to date the Code comes into force may be appealed, protested and reviewed under prosecutor’s petition in order as provided for by the Code.
Judicial acts in cases provided in part two of

Section 1012. Original section/article: 434. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code, issued prior to January 1, 2016, may be appealed or protested to cassational instance of Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan within six months from date the Code comes into force.
Footnote.

Section 1013. Original section/article: 505. Source: Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the RK dated 08.04.2016 №489-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 №91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
President of the
Republic of Kazakhstan 
N. NAZARBAYEV 
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
