Kazakhstan source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Category: Core constitutional law
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/K950001000_
Note: Official English reference text from Adilet legal information system.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan proclaims itself as a democratic, secular, legal and social state whose highest values are a person, his life, rights, and freedoms. 
2. The fundamental principles of the activity of the Republic are public concord and political stability; economic development for the benefit of all the nation; Kazakhstani patriotism and resolution of the most critical issues of State affairs by democratic methods including voting by national referendum or in Parliament. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 18/2 dated December 21, 2001.

Section 2. Original section/article: 2. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan is a unitary state with a presidential form of government.
2. The sovereignty of the Republic shall cover the whole of its territory. The state shall ensure the integrity, inviolability, and inalienability of its territory. 
3. The administrative-territorial structure of the Republic and the status of its capital shall be determined by the law. The capital of Kazakhstan is the city of Astana.
3-1. Within the city of Astana, a special legal regime in the financial sector may be established in accordance with constitutional law.
4. The names "Republic of Kazakhstan" and "Kazakhstan" shall be equal.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 4 dated April 23, 2003. 
Footnote:

Section 3. Original section/article: 2. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); № 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); № 238-VI of 23.03.2019 (shall be effective from the date of its first official publication); dated September 17, 2022, No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the date of its first official publication).

Section 4. Original section/article: 3. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The people shall be the only source of governmental power.
2. The people shall exercise power directly through national referendum and free elections, as well as delegate the execution of their ability to state institutions. 
3. Nobody shall have the right to arrogate the power in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Arrogation of authority shall be prosecuted by law. The right to act on behalf of the people and the state shall belong to the President, as well as to the Parliament of the Republic within the limits of the constitutional powers. The government and other state bodies shall act on behalf of the state only within the limits of their delegated authorities. 
4. The state power in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be unified and executed on the basis of the Constitution and laws in accordance with the principle of its division into the legislative, executive and judicial branches, and a system of checks and balances, which governs their interaction.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.1/2 dated April 12, 2001.

Section 5. Original section/article: 4. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The current law in the Republic of Kazakhstan is the norms of the Constitution, laws corresponding to it, other regulatory legal acts, international treaty and other obligations of the Republic, as well as regulatory resolutions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic.
Note. In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 regulatory resolutions of the Constitutional Council shall be applied to the extent that they do not contradict the Constitution until they are reviewed by the Constitutional Court. 
2. The Constitution shall have the highest juridical force and direct effect on the entire territory of the Republic.
3. International agreements ratified by the Republic have primacy over its laws. The legislation of the Republic determines the procedure and conditions of operation of international agreements in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to which Kazakhstan is a party. 
4. All laws and international agreements, where the Republic is a party, shall be published. Official publication of regulatory and legal acts, dealing with the rights, freedoms, and responsibilities of citizens shall be the necessary condition for their application. 
Footnote: See regulatory decisions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 18/2 dated October 11, 2000, №. 6 dated November 05, 2009. 
Footnote:

Section 6. Original section/article: 4. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (effective from 01.01.2023).

Section 7. Original section/article: 5. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan shall recognize ideological and political diversity. The formation of political parties in state bodies shall not be permitted.
2. Public associations shall be equal before the law. Illegal interference of the state in the affairs of public associations, and public associations in the affairs of the state, imposing the functions of state institutions on public associations shall not be permitted.
3. Formation and functioning of public associations pursuing the goals or actions directed toward a violent change of the constitutional system, violation of the integrity of the Republic, undermining the security of the state, inciting social, racial, national, religious, and tribal enmity, as well as the formation of unauthorized paramilitary units shall be prohibited.
4. Activities of political parties and trade unions of other states, religious parties, as well as the financing of political parties and trade unions of foreign legal entities and citizens, foreign states and international organizations shall not be permitted in the Republic.
5. Activities of foreign religious associations on the territory of the Republic, as well as the appointment of heads of religious associations in the Republic by foreign religious centers shall be carried out in coordination with the respective state institutions of the Republic. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 4/2 dated June 7, 2000. 
Footnote:

Section 8. Original section/article: 5. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication).

Section 9. Original section/article: 6. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan shall recognize and protect state and private property equally.
2. Property shall impose obligations, and its use must simultaneously benefit the society. Subjects and objects of ownership, the scope, and limits of the rights of proprietors, and guarantees of their protection shall be determined by law. 
3. The land and its subsoil, water, flora and fauna, and other natural resources belong to the people. On behalf of the people, the right to property is exercised by the state. Land may also be in private ownership on the grounds, conditions and within the limits established by law. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.19/2 dated November 3, 1999; No.2/2 dated April 13, 2000; No.1/2 dated April 12, 2001; No. 4 dated April 23, 2003. 
Footnote.

Section 10. Original section/article: 6. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 11. Original section/article: 7. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the Kazakh language.
2. Russian language shall be officially used on equal grounds along with the Kazakh language in state institutions and local self-administrative bodies.
3. The state shall promote conditions for the study and development of the languages of the people of Kazakhstan.

Section 12. Original section/article: 8. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Republic of Kazakhstan shall respect principles and norms of international law, shape policy of cooperation and good-neighbourly relations between states, their equality and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs, peaceful settlement of international disputes and renounce the [first] use of military force.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.1/2 dated April 12, 2001.

Section 13. Original section/article: 9. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Republic of Kazakhstan shall have its state symbols - the flag, emblem, and the anthem. The constitutional law shall establish their description and order of official use. 
Footnote.

Section 14. Original section/article: 9. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended in the Kazakh language, the text in the Russian language is not changed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication). 
Section II
Person and Citizen

Section 15. Original section/article: 10. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be acquired and terminated, as prescribed by law and shall be indivisible and equal regardless of the grounds of its acquisition.
2. A citizen of the Republic shall not be deprived of citizenship, the right to change such citizenship, and also may not be expelled from Kazakhstan. Deprivation of citizenship is allowed only by a court decision for the commission of terrorist crimes, as well as for causing other grave harm to the vital interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
3. Foreign citizenship of a citizen of the Republic shall not be recognized.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 12 dated December 1, 2003. 
Footnote:

Section 16. Original section/article: 10. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication).

Section 17. Original section/article: 11. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be extradited to a foreign state unless otherwise stipulated by international agreements of the Republic. 
2. The Republic shall guarantee protection and patronage to its citizens outside its boundaries.

Section 18. Original section/article: 12. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be recognized and guaranteed in accordance with this Constitution.
2. Human rights and liberties shall belong to everyone by virtue of birth, be recognized as absolute and inalienable, and define the contents and implementation of laws and other regulatory and legal acts. 
3. Every citizen of the Republic shall have rights and bear responsibilities owing to his citizenship.
4. Foreigners and stateless people in the Republic shall enjoy rights and freedoms as well as bear responsibilities, established for the citizens unless otherwise stipulated by the Constitution, laws and international agreements.
5. The exercise of a citizen's human rights and freedoms must not violate the rights and freedoms of other people nor infringe on the constitutional system and public morals. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.12 dated December 1, 2003; No. 4 dated April 18, 2007.

Section 19. Original section/article: 13. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone has the right to recognition of his/her legal personality and the right to protect his/her rights and freedoms by all means not contradicting the law, including the necessary defense.
2. Everyone shall have the right to legal defense of his rights and freedoms. 
3. Everyone shall have the right to take qualified legal assistance. In cases stipulated by law, legal assistance shall be provided free of charge.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic Kazakhstan No. 7/2 dated March 29, 1999; No. 1 dated February 15, 2002.

Section 20. Original section/article: 14. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall be equal before the law and court.
2. No one shall be subject to any discrimination for reasons of origin, social, property status, occupation, sex, race, nationality, language, attitude towards religion, convictions, place of residence or any other circumstances.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 2/2 dated March 10, 1999; No. 7/2 dated March 29, 1999.

Section 21. Original section/article: 15. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall have the right to life.
2. No one has the right to arbitrarily deprive a person of life. The death penalty is prohibited.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 10 dated January 30, 2003; 
Footnote:

Section 22. Original section/article: 15. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 23. Original section/article: 16. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall have the right to personal freedom.
2. Arrest and detention shall be allowed only in cases stipulated by law and only with the authorization of the with the right of appeal. Without the authorization of the court, a person shall be detained for a period of not more than seventy-two hours.
3. Every person detained, arrested and accused of committing a crime shall have the right to the assistance of a lawyer (defender) from the moment of detention, arrest or accusation.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 13 dated December 31, 2003; 
Footnote:

Section 24. Original section/article: 16. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication).

Section 25. Original section/article: 17. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Human dignity shall be inviolable.
2. No one should be subjected to torture, violence, abusive or other treatment and punishment degrading human dignity.

Section 26. Original section/article: 18. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall have the right to inviolability of private life, personal or family secrets, protection of honor and dignity.
2. Everyone shall have the right to confidentiality of individual deposits and savings, correspondence, telephone conversations, postal, telegraph, and other messages. The limitation of this right shall be permitted only in cases and according to the procedure directly established by law. 
3. State bodies, public associations, officials, and the mass media must provide every citizen with the possibility to become familiar with the documents, decisions and other sources of information concerning his rights and interests.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.5 dated on August 20, 2009.

Section 27. Original section/article: 19. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall have the right to determine and indicate or not indicate his national, party and religious affiliation.
2. Everyone shall have the right to use his native language and culture, to freely choose the language of communication, education, instruction and creative activities.

Section 28. Original section/article: 20. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Freedom of speech and creative activities shall be guaranteed. Censorship shall be prohibited.
2. Everyone shall have the right to freely receive and disseminate information by any means not prohibited by law. The list of items constituting state secrets of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be determined by law.
3. Propaganda or agitation for the forcible change of the constitutional system, violation of the integrity of the Republic, undermining of state security, and advocating war, social, racial, national, religious, and clannish superiority as well as the cult of cruelty and violence, shall not be allowed.

Section 29. Original section/article: 21. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone who has the legal right to stay within the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to free movement throughout its territory and free choice of a place of residence, except in cases stipulated by law.
2. Everyone shall have the right to leave the territory of the Republic. Citizens of the Republic shall have the right to return to the Republic freely.

Section 30. Original section/article: 22. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of conscience.
2. The right to freedom of conscience shall not specify or limit universal human and civil rights and responsibilities before the state.

Section 31. Original section/article: 23. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to freedom of forming associations. The activities of public associations shall be regulated by law.
2. Chairmen and judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and other courts, chairmen and members of the Central Electoral Commission, the Supreme Audit Chamber of the Republic, military personnel, employees of national security agencies, law enforcement agencies should not be members of political parties, trade unions, support any political party.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 13/2 dated July 5, 2000. 
Footnote.

Section 32. Original section/article: 23. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 33. Original section/article: 24. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of labor, free choice of occupation and profession. Forced labor is allowed only on the basis of a judicial act on the conviction of a criminal or administrative offense or in a state of emergency or martial law.
2. Everyone has the right to working conditions that meet the requirements of safety and hygiene, to remuneration for work without any discrimination, as well as to social protection against unemployment.
3. The right to individual and collective labor disputes using the methods for resolving them, established by law, including the right to strike, shall be recognized.
4. Everyone shall have the right to rest. Working labor agreements specifying the length of working time, days off and holidays, and paid annual leave shall be guaranteed by law. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 2/2 dated March 10, 1999. 
Footnote.

Section 34. Original section/article: 24. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 35. Original section/article: 25. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The right to housing shall be inviolable. Deprivation of housing shall not be permitted unless otherwise stipulated by a court judgment. Entry into housing, its inspection and search shall be permitted only in certain cases and according to the procedure stipulated by law.
2. Provisions to provide citizens with housing in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be created. Citizens in need of housing shall be categorized in a manner, to be prescribed by law and provided with housing at an affordable price from the state housing funds in accordance with the norms stipulated by law.

Section 36. Original section/article: 26. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall privately own any legally acquired property.
2. The property, including the right of inheritance, shall be guaranteed by law. 
3. No one may be deprived of his property unless otherwise stipulated by a court judgment. Forcible alienation of property for public use in extraordinary cases specified by law shall be exercised on condition of its equivalent compensation.
4. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of entrepreneurial activity, and free use of property for any legal entrepreneurial activity. Monopolistic activity shall be regulated and limited by law. Unfair competition shall be prohibited. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 6/2 dated June 16, 2000; No. 21/2 dated December 20, 2000; No. 4 dated July 1, 2005; 28.05.2007 № 5 .

Section 37. Original section/article: 27. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Marriage and family, motherhood, fatherhood, and childhood shall be under the protection of the state. 
2. Care and upbringing of children shall be a natural right and responsibility of parents.
3. Adult, able-bodied children must take care of their disabled parents.

Section 38. Original section/article: 28. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be guaranteed a minimum wage and pension, and guaranteed social security in old age, in case of disease, disability or loss of the main income-provider and other legal grounds.
2. Voluntary social insurance, the creation of additional forms of social security, and charity shall be encouraged. 
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.3/2 dated March 12, 1999.

Section 39. Original section/article: 29. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to protection of health.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall be entitled to free, guaranteed, extensive medical assistance established by law.
3. Paid medical treatment shall be provided by state and private medical institutions, as well as by people engaged in private medical practice on terms and according to the terms and procedures stipulated by law.

Section 40. Original section/article: 30. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizens shall be guaranteed free secondary education in state educational establishments. Secondary education shall be obligatory.
2. A citizen shall have the right to obtain a higher education on a competitive basis in a state higher educational institution.
3. Fee-based education in private educational institutions shall be carried out on the grounds and in the manner prescribed by law.
4. The state shall set uniform compulsory standards in education. The activity of any educational institution must comply with these standards.

Section 41. Original section/article: 31. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The state shall aim to protect the environment in favour of human life and health.
2. Officials shall be held accountable for the concealment of facts and circumstances endangering the life and health of the people in accordance with the law.

Section 42. Original section/article: 32. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to assemble peacefully and without weapons, hold meetings, campaigns and demonstrations, street processions and pickets. The use of this right may be restricted by law in the interests of state security, public order, and protection of health, rights, and the freedom of other persons.

Section 43. Original section/article: 33. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to participate in the government of the state’s affairs directly and through their representatives, to address personally as well as to direct individual and collective appeals to public and local self-administrative bodies.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall have the right to elect and be elected into public and local self-administration as well as to participate in an all-nation referendum. 
3. The right to elect and be elected, to participate in the all-nation referendum shall not extend to those citizens judged incapable by a court as well as those held in places of confinement upon a court’s sentence.
4. Citizens of the Republic shall have an equal right to serve in public office. The requirements for candidates for public offices shall be conditioned only by the character of the duties of the office and shall be established by law.
Footnote.

Section 44. Original section/article: 33. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998.

Section 45. Original section/article: 34. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Everyone must observe the Constitution, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and respect the rights, freedoms, honor, and dignity of other people. 
2. Everyone must appreciate the state symbols of the Republic.

Section 46. Original section/article: 35. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Payment of legally established taxes, fees, and other obligatory payments shall be a duty and responsibility of everyone.

Section 47. Original section/article: 36. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be a sacred duty and responsibility of its every citizen.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall perform military service according to the procedure and in the forms established by law.

Section 48. Original section/article: 37. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan must care for the protection of historical and cultural heritage, and preserve monuments of history and culture.

Section 49. Original section/article: 38. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan must preserve nature and protect natural resources.

Section 50. Original section/article: 39. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Rights and freedoms of an individual and citizen may be limited only by law and only to the extent necessary for the protection of the constitutional system, defense of public order, human rights and freedoms, and the health and morality of the population. 
2. Any acts capable of violating inter-ethnic and inter-religious harmony shall be recognized as unconstitutional.
3. Restriction of the rights and freedoms of citizens for political reasons shall not be allowed in any form. The rights and freedoms provided for by articles 11, 13–15, paragraph 1 of

Section 51. Original section/article: 26. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, are not subject to limitation in any case.
Footnote. See normative resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.05.2007 № 5. 
Footnote.

Section 52. Original section/article: 39. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication). 
Section III
The President

Section 53. Original section/article: 40. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the head of the state, holder of the highest office determining the main guidelines of the domestic and foreign policy of the state and representing Kazakhstan within the country and in international relations.
2. The President of the Republic shall be a symbol and guarantor of the unity of the people and state power, the inviolability of the Constitution, the rights and freedoms of person and citizen.
3. The President of the Republic ensures the coordinated functioning of all branches of government and the responsibility of the authorities to the people.

Section 54. Original section/article: 41. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be elected in accordance with the constitutional law by adult citizens of the Republic based on universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot for a period of seven years.
2. A citizen of the Republic by birth who is at least forty years old, fluent in the state language, has lived in Kazakhstan for the last fifteen years and has a higher education, may be elected President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The constitutional law may establish additional requirements for candidates for the President of the Republic.
3. Regular elections of the President of the Republic shall be held on the first Sunday of December and shall not coincide with the election of a new Parliament of the Republic.
3-1. Extraordinary presidential elections shall be assigned by the decision of the President of the Republic and shall be held in accordance with the procedure and terms established by the Constitutional Law. 
4. Excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998 
5. A candidate who receives more than fifty percent of the votes cast by voters who have taken part in the voting shall be considered elected. In the event that none of the candidates receives the specified number of votes, a second vote shall be taken, in which two candidates who receive the largest number of votes participate. A candidate is considered to be elected if he receives a greater number of votes of the voters who took part in the voting.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 9/2 dated October 9, 1998; No. 5 dated August 19, 2005. 
Footnote:

Section 55. Original section/article: 41. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998: No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); No. 403-IV dated February 02, 2011 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); dated September 17, 2022, No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the date of its first official publication).

Section 56. Original section/article: 42. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take office from the moment of swearing to the people the following oath: "I solemnly swear that I will faithfully serve the people of Kazakhstan, strictly observe the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens and honestly perform the high duties of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan entrusted to me."
2. The oath is taken on the second Wednesday of January in a solemn atmosphere in the presence of members of Parliament, judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, as well as ex-Presidents of the Republic. In the case provided for by

Section 57. Original section/article: 48. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, the person who has assumed the powers of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take the oath within one month from the date of assuming the powers of the President of the Republic.
3. The powers of the President of the Republic shall terminate from the moment the newly -elected President of the Republic takes office as well as in the case of early discharge from office, resignation or death. All former Presidents of the Republic, except those who were discharged from office, shall have the title of ex-President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998. 
5. The same person may not be elected as the President of the Republic more than once.
Footnote:

Section 58. Original section/article: 42. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.284-I dated October 7, 1998; No.254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022); dated September 17, 2022 No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the date of its first official publication).

Section 59. Original section/article: 43. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not have the right to be a deputy of a representative body, occupy other paid positions nor engage in entrepreneurial activity.
2. Excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007. 
3. For the period of exercising his powers, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be a member of a political party.
4. Close relatives of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan are not entitled to hold positions of political civil servants, heads of subjects of the quasi-public sector.
Footnote:

Section 60. Original section/article: 43. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 61. Original section/article: 44. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall:
1) annually address the people of Kazakhstan with a message on the state of the country and the main guidelines of the domestic and foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
2) calls regular and extraordinary elections to the Parliament of the Republic and its Chambers; convenes the first session of the Parliament and takes the oath of its deputies to the people of Kazakhstan; convenes an extraordinary session of the Parliament; signs the law submitted by the Parliament within one month, promulgates the law or returns the law or its individual articles for re-discussion and voting;
3) after consultations with the factions of political parties represented in the Mazhilis of the Parliament, recommends the candidacy of the Prime Minister of the Republic to the Mazhilis for approval; with the consent of the Mazhilis of the Parliament appoints the Prime Minister of the Republic; dismisses the Prime Minister of the Republic; on the recommendation of the Prime Minister determines the structure of the Government; on the recommendation of the Prime Minister, made after consultations with the Mazhilis of the Parliament, appoints members of the Government; independently appoints ministers of foreign affairs, defense, internal affairs; dismisses members of the Government from office; takes the oath of the members of the Government; if necessary, presides over meetings of the Government on particularly important issues;
4) with the consent of the Senate of the Parliament, appoints the Chairman of the Constitutional Court, the Chairman of the National Bank, the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor General and the Chairman of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan; relieves them of their posts;
5) create, abolish and reorganize national bodies that are directly subordinate and accountable to the President of the Republic,
6) appoint and recall the heads of diplomatic representative offices of the Republic;
7) appoints the Chairman and two members of the Central Electoral Commission, the Chairman and two members of the Supreme Audit Chamber for a term of five years;
8) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication). 
9) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication). 
10) adopt a resolution on the conduct of the national referendum; 
10-1) in the interests of protecting the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring national security, sovereignty and integrity of the state, sends an appeal to the Constitutional Court on consideration of the law or other legal act that has entered into force for compliance with the Constitution of the Republic, on giving an opinion in the case provided for in paragraph 3 of

Section 62. Original section/article: 91. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
11) conduct negotiations and sign international agreements of the Republic; sign ratification instruments; letters of credentials and recall from diplomatic and other representatives of foreign states accredited to him;
12) act as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic, appoint and discharge the highest command of the Armed Forces from office;
13) award state decorations of the Republic; confer honorary, highest military and other ranks, ranked positions, diplomatic ranks and qualification degrees;
14) resolve issues of citizenship of the Republic, and granting of political asylum;
15) exercise the pardon of citizens;
16) take measures dictated by the above circumstances including the imposition of a state of emergency on the entire territory and in particular areas of Kazakhstan, and immediately inform the Parliament of the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic in case of a serious and immediate threat to the democratic institutions of the Republic, its independence and territorial integrity, political stability of the Republic, security of its citizens and the disruption of normal functioning of the Constitutional bodies of the state, after official consultations with the Prime Minister and Chairpersons of the Parliamentary Chambers of the Republic;
17) the President shall impose martial law on the entire territory of the Republic or in particular areas, declare a partial or total mobilization and immediately inform the Parliament of the Republic in case of aggression against the Republic or immediate external threat to its security;
18) form the State Security Service subordinate to him;
19) appoints and dismisses the State Councilor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, determines his status and powers; forms the Administration of the President of the Republic;
20) form the Security Council and other consultative and advisory bodies as well as the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Supreme Judicial Council;
21) exercise other powers in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic.
Footnote: See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 10/2 dated June 30, 1999; No. 15/2 dated July 03, 2000, No. 14/2 dated November 12, 2001; No.3 dated October 18, 2010. 
Footnote.

Section 63. Original section/article: 44. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998; No. 254-III dated 21.05.2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (for the procedure of entry into force, see

Section 64. Original section/article: 45. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the basis of and for the exercise of the Constitution and the laws, shall issue decrees and resolutions which are binding on the entire territory of the Republic.
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication). 
3. Acts of Parliament, signed by the President of the Republic, as well as acts of the President, issued on the initiative of the Government, shall be preliminarily affixed accordingly by the signature of the Chairperson of each Chamber of Parliament or the Prime Minister, who are legally responsible for the legality of these acts. 
Footnote: See regulatory resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 15/2 dated July 3, 2000; No. 5 dated June 26, 2008. 
Footnote: See

Section 65. Original section/article: 45. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication).

Section 66. Original section/article: 46. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, his honor and dignity shall be inviolable. 
2. Provision, service, and guard of the President of the Republic and his family shall be carried out at the state's expense.
3. The provisions of this article shall apply to ex-Presidents of the Republic.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022). 
Footnote:

Section 67. Original section/article: 46. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 68. Original section/article: 47. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be early dismissed from office in case of persistent inability to perform his duties due to illness. In this case, the Parliament forms a commission consisting of an equal number of deputies from each Chamber and specialists in the relevant fields of medicine. The decision on early release is made at a joint meeting of the Chambers of Parliament by a majority of at least three-quarters of the total number of deputies of each of the Chambers on the basis of the conclusion of the commission and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court on compliance with the established constitutional procedures.
2. The President of the Republic is liable for acts committed in the performance of his duties only in the event of high treason and may be removed from office by Parliament for this. The decision to bring charges and investigate them may be taken by a majority of the total number of deputies of the Mazhilis on the initiative of at least one third of its deputies. The investigation of the accusation is organized by the Senate, and its results, by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Senate, are submitted for consideration by a joint session of the Chambers of Parliament. The final decision on this issue is made at a joint meeting of the Chambers of Parliament by a majority of at least three-quarters of the total number of votes of deputies of each of the Chambers, subject to the presence of the conclusion of the Supreme Court on the validity of the accusation and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court on compliance with the established constitutional procedures. Failure to make a final decision within two months from the date of the accusation entails the recognition of the accusation against the President of the Republic as dismissed. The rejection of the accusation of the President of the Republic of committing high treason at any stage entails the early termination of the powers of the deputies of the Mazhilis who initiated the consideration of this issue.
3. The issue of discharge of the President of the Republic from office may not be commenced within the period of consideration by him of the issue of early termination of the powers of Parliament of the Republic or the Mazhilis of Parliament. 
Footnote:

Section 69. Original section/article: 47. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (effective from 01.01.2023).

Section 70. Original section/article: 48. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. In case of early discharge or impeachment of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan from office as well as in the case of his death, the powers of the President of the Republic shall be transmitted for the remaining period to the Chairperson of the Senate of Parliament; if the Chairperson of the Senate is unable to assume the powers of the President, they shall pass to the Chairperson of the Mazhilis of Parliament; if the Chairperson of the Mazhilis is unable to assume the powers of the President, they shall pass to the Prime Minister of the Republic. A person who has assumed the powers of the President of the Republic, shall resign himself from the powers of the Chairperson of the Senate, the Chairperson of the Mazhilis and the Prime Minister. In this case, the filling of vacant public positions shall be carried out in the manner prescribed by the Constitution.
2. A person who has assumed the authority of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the grounds and in the manner provided by paragraph 1 of this article, shall not have the right to initiate changes and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote:

Section 71. Original section/article: 48. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998. 
Section IV
Parliament

Section 72. Original section/article: 49. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the highest representative body of the Republic exercising legislative power.
2. Parliament's powers shall begin from the opening of its first session and terminate with the first session of the Parliament of a new convocation.
3. The powers of Parliament may be terminated early in cases and as stipulated by the Constitution.
4. Constitutional Law shall determine the organization and activity of Parliament as well as the legal status of its deputies. 
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.13/2 dated July 14, 1999. 
Footnote.

Section 73. Original section/article: 49. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998; No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication).

Section 74. Original section/article: 50. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Parliament shall consist of two Chambers: the Senate and the Mazhilis, which act on a permanent basis. 
2. In the manner prescribed by the constitutional law, the Senate is formed by the deputies for two persons out of each region, city of republican significance and the capital of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Ten deputies of the Senate are appointed by the President of the Republic, five of them - at the recommendation of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan.
3. The Mazhilis consists of ninety-eight deputies elected in the manner prescribed by the constitutional law under a mixed electoral system: according to the system of proportional representation in the territory of a single nationwide constituency, as well as in single-mandate territorial constituencies.
4. A deputy of Parliament may not be a member of both Chambers at the same time.
5. The term of powers of the Senate’s deputies shall be six years, and the term of the deputies of the Mazhilis shall be five years.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.1/2 dated March 15, 1999; No.24/2 dated November 29, 1999; No.1 dated February 11, 2003; No.1 dated February 12, 2004. 
Footnote.

Section 75. Original section/article: 50. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998; No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 76. Original section/article: 51. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Election of deputies of the Mazhilis is carried out on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot. The next elections of deputies of the Mazhilis are held no later than two months before the end of the term of office of the current convocation of the Parliament.
2. The election of deputies of the Senate shall be carried out on the basis of indirect suffrage by secret ballot. Half of the elected deputies of the Senate shall be re-elected every three years. In this case, their regular elections shall be held no later than two months before the expiry of their term of office.
3. Extraordinary elections of the deputies of Parliament or the Mazhilis of Parliament shall be held within two months from the day of early termination of the powers of Parliament or the Mazhilis of Parliament respectively.
4. A deputy of Parliament may be a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan and who has been a permanent resident for the last ten years on its territory. A deputy of the Senate may be a person who has reached thirty years of age, has a higher education and length of service of not less than five years, and has been a permanent resident for not less than three years on the territory of the respective region, city of republic significance or the capital of the Republic. A deputy of the Mazhilis may be a person who has reached twenty-five years of age.
5. Constitutional Law shall regulate elections of the deputies of the Parliament of the Republic. 
6. A deputy of Parliament shall take an oath before the people of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 5/2 dated March 18, 1999; No. 24/2 dated November 29, 1999; No. 1 dated February 11, 2003. 
Footnote.

Section 77. Original section/article: 51. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998; No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 78. Original section/article: 52. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated No. 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication).
2. Deputies of Parliament are obliged to take part in its work. Voting in Parliament shall be carried out by the deputy only in person. The absence of a deputy without a clear reason at meetings of the Chambers and their bodies more than three times, as well as the transfer of the right to vote, entails the application to the deputy of statutory measures of punishment. 
3. A deputy of Parliament shall not have the right to be a deputy of another representative body, occupy other paid positions, except teaching, research, and creative activities, be engaged in entrepreneurial activity, be a member of a governing body or a supervisory board of a commercial organization. Violation of this rule shall entail the termination of a deputy's powers. 
4. A deputy of Parliament during the term of his office may not be arrested, subject to detention, measures of administrative punishment imposed judicially, charged with criminal liability without the consent of a respective Chamber except for cases of being detained at the scene of a crime or the commission of serious crimes.
5. The powers of a deputy of the Parliament shall be terminated in cases of resignation, death, being recognized as incapable, dead or untraceable by a valid judgment of the court, and in other cases stipulated by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. 
A deputy of the Parliament shall be deprived of his mandate in cases of:
1) his departure for permanent residence beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) the entry into force against him of a conviction rendered by a court ;
3) loss of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A deputy of the Mazhilis of the Parliament loses his mandate in case of: 
1) withdrawal or expulsion of a deputy from the political party from which, in accordance with the constitutional law, he was elected on the basis of a party list;
2) termination of the activities of a political party from which, in accordance with the constitutional law, a deputy was elected on the basis of a party list; 
3) recall by voters, in the manner determined by the constitutional law, of a deputy elected in a single-mandate territorial constituency.
The powers of appointed deputies of the Senate of Parliament may be terminated early by the decision of the President of the Republic.
The powers of the deputies of Parliament and the Mazhilis of Parliament shall be terminated early in cases of dissolution of Parliament and the Mazhilis of Parliament respectively.
6. Preparation of issues concerning the application of penalty measures to the deputies, their compliance with the requirements of item 3 of this article, rules of deputy ethics, as well as termination of the deputies' powers and deprivation of their powers and deputy inviolability, shall be imposed by the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 7/2 dated May 17, 2001; No. 19/2 dated December 13, 2001; No. 10 dated January 30, 2003; No. 1 dated February 11, 2003; No. 5 dated May 12, 2003; No. 9 dated August 25, 2004. 
Footnote.

Section 79. Original section/article: 52. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 284-I dated October 7, 1998; No.254-III dated May 21, 2007(shall be applied from the date of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 80. Original section/article: 53. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Parliament at a joint session of the Chambers shall:
1) introduce amendments and supplements to the Constitution pursuant to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
1-1) adopts constitutional laws;
1-2) conducts a repeated discussion and voting on constitutional laws or articles of a constitutional law that raised objections from the President of the Republic, within a month from the day the objections were sent. Failure to comply with this deadline means acceptance of the objections of the President. If the Parliament, by a three-quarters majority of the total number of deputies of each of the Chambers, overcomes the objections of the President, the President signs the constitutional law within one month. If the objections of the President are not overcome, the constitutional law is considered not adopted or adopted in the wording proposed by the President;
2) approve the reports of the Government and the Accounts Committee for Control over Implementation of Republican Budget on the implementation of the national budget. Failure to approve the report of the Government on the execution of the Republican Budget by Parliament means that the Parliament expresses a vote of no confidence in the Government; 
3) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication).); 
4) take a decision on war and peace issues;
5) take the decision to use the Armed Forces of the Republic pursuant to the proposal of the President of the Republic to fulfil international obligations for the maintenance of peace and security;
6) hears the annual messages of the Constitutional Court on the state of constitutional legality in the Republic;
7) form joint commissions of the Chambers, elect and release their chairpersons from office, hear reports on the activity of the commissions;
8) exercise other powers assigned to the Parliament by the Constitution.
Footnote. See normative resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 5 dated June 26, 2008. 
Footnote.

Section 81. Original section/article: 53. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No.254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be applied from the date of its official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be applied from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (see

Section 82. Original section/article: 3. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for the procedure for entry into force).

Section 83. Original section/article: 54. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Parliament adopts laws in a separate session of the Chambers by sequential consideration of issues, first in the Mazhilis, and then in the Senate, including:
1) Approve the national budget and make amendments and supplements thereto;
2) Establish and annul state taxes and dues;
3) Establish the rules for resolution of issues related to the administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) Institute state awards, honorary, military and other titles, ranked positions, diplomatic ranks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and determine state symbols of the Republic;
5) resolve issues of state loans and economic and other assistance granted by the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) Resolve amnesty issues;
7) Ratify and denounce international treaties of the Republic.
2. The Parliament at a separate session of the Chambers through consecutive consideration of issues first in the Mazhilis and then in the Senate shall:
1) Discuss the National Budget Performance Report;
2) 2) holds a repeated discussion and vote on the laws or articles of the law that raised objections from the President of the Republic, within a month from the day the objections were sent. Failure to comply with this deadline means acceptance of the objections of the President. If the Mazhilis and the Senate, by a two-thirds majority of the total number of deputies of each of the Chambers, overcome the objections of the President, the President signs the law within one month. If the objections of the President are not overcome by at least one of the Chambers, the law is considered not adopted or adopted in the wording proposed by the President;
3) Initiate the national referendum.
Footnote. See the regulatory resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.10.2008 No. 8. 
Footnote:

Section 84. Original section/article: 54. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated 21.05.2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 85. Original section/article: 55. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The following shall be the exclusive responsibility of the Senate:
1) Election and release from office of the Chairperson of the Supreme Court and judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon the recommendation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and swearing them into office;
1-1) election of The Human Rights Commissioner in Kazakhstan for a five-year term and his release from office upon the recommendation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) giving consent to the appointment by the President of the Republic of the Chairman of the Constitutional Court, the Chairman of the National Bank, the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor General, the Chairman of the National Security Committee of the Republic;
3) deprivation of immunity of the Prosecutor General, the Chairman and judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic, the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) has been excluded pursuant to the RK Law dated May 21, 2007 N 254-III, (is enacted from the date of its official publishing); 
5) performance of the Parliament’s functions with regard to adoption of constitutional and other laws, when the Mazhilis is absent due to the early termination of its powers;
6) performance of other powers that have been conferred upon the Senate by the Constitution.
Footnote: See resolution N 11/2 of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 5, 2000. 
Footnote:

Section 86. Original section/article: 55. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication); No. 51-VI dated March 10, 2017(shall be enacted from the day of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 87. Original section/article: 56. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The following shall be the exclusive responsibility of the Mazhilis:
1) acceptance for consideration of draft constitutional laws and laws submitted to the Parliament;
2) acceptance of the President's candidate for Prime Minister by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Chamber. ;
3) Announcement of the regular Presidential elections in the Republic;
3-1) hearing twice a year the report of the Chairman of the Supreme Audit Chamber;
4) performance of other powers that have been conferred upon the Mazhilis by the Constitution.
2. Upon the proposal of at least one fifth of its total membership, the Mazhilis is empowered to adopt by a simple majority of its total membership, a vote of no confidence in the Government.
Footnote:

Section 88. Original section/article: 56. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended pursuant to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication; as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (see

Section 89. Original section/article: 3. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for the procedure for entry into force).

Section 90. Original section/article: 57. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Each of the Parliament Chambers shall independently, without participation from the other Chamber:
1) appoints three judges of the Constitutional Court; appoints two members of the Central Electoral Commission and three members of the Supreme Audit Chamber for a five-year term;
2) delegate half of the members of the commission formed by Parliament in the case provided for in

Section 91. Original section/article: 47. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1 of the Constitution;
3) elect half the members of joint commissions of the Chambers;
4) terminate the powers of the Chambers’ deputies, and upon recommendation of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, resolves the issues of their immunity removal;
5) hold Parliamentary hearings on the issues of its responsibilities;
6) have the right, on the initiative of a vote by at least one third of the total membership, to hear the reports of the Government on their performance. After the hearings, a majority of at least two-thirds vote of the total membership of the Chamber, is entitled to adopt the request of the President of the Republic to remove from office the member of the Government who failed to comply with the legislation of the Republic. The President shall then dismiss that member. 
7) establish the coordinating and working bodies of the Chambers; and
8) adopt the regulations of their activities, other decisions on the issues of the Chamber structure and the internal code of conduct.
Footnote:

Section 92. Original section/article: 57. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended pursuant to the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 284-I dated October 7, 1998; N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication); N 51-VI dated March 10, 2017 (shall be enacted from the day of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 93. Original section/article: 58. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Chambers shall be headed by their chairpersons, who are elected by the Senate and the Mazhilis from among the deputies who are fluent in the state language, by a secret vote of a majority of the total membership. The Senate Chairperson shall be nominated by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Mazhilis Chairperson shall be nominated by the Chamber deputies.
2. The Chairpersons of the Chambers may be released from office and are entitled to submit their resignation by way of a majority vote by the Chambers.
3. The Chairpersons of Parliament's Chambers shall:
1) convene and chair sessions of the Chambers;
2) exercise general supervision of the issues subject to consideration by the Chambers;
3) nominate the Deputy Chairs of the Chambers;
4) ensure the respect for the regulations by Chambers in their activity;
5) supervise the activity of the coordinating bodies of the Chambers;
6) sign acts issued by the Chambers;
7) recommend to the Chambers the candidates for appointment to the positions of judges of the Constitutional Court, members of the Central Election Commission, the Supreme Audit Chamber;
8) comply with other duties entrusted by the Regulation of Parliament.
4. The Mazhilis Chairperson shall:
1) open the sessions of Parliament;
2) convene regular joint sessions of the Chambers and chair the regular and extraordinary joint sessions of the Chambers.
5. The Chairpersons of the Chambers shall issue instructions on the matters of their responsibility.
Footnote:

Section 94. Original section/article: 58. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended pursuant to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 95. Original section/article: 59. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Parliamentary sessions shall proceed in the form of joint and separate sessions of the Chambers.
2. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall convene the first session no later than thirty days after the election results are published.
3. The regular sessions of the Parliament shall be held once a year from the first business day of September to the last business day of June.
4. Generally the session of Parliament shall be opened by the President of the Republic and closed at joint sessions of the Senate and Mazhilis. During the intersession period, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, either on his own initiative, or at the suggestion of one of the Chairpersons or at least one-third of the total membership of the Parliament, is entitled to convene an extraordinary session of Parliament. Only the issues that were the reason for the convocation shall be considered at this session.
5. Joint and individual sessions of the Chambers shall be held if at least two-thirds of the total membership of each Chamber are present.
6. Joint and individual sessions of the Chambers shall be open. If provided for by the regulations, the session may be held behind closed doors. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and members of the Government, the Chair of the National Bank, the Prosecutor General, and the Chairperson of the National Security Committee shall have the right to be present at any session and be heard.
Footnote: See resolution of the Constitutional Council of Republic of Kazakhstan N 14/2 dated June 30, 1999, resolution of the Constitutional Council of Republic of Kazakhstan N 13/2 dated July 14, 1999. 
Footnote:

Section 96. Original section/article: 59. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, as amended pursuant to the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication.)

Section 97. Original section/article: 60. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Chambers shall establish standing committees with at least seven members in each Chamber.
2. The Senate and Mazhilis shall have the right to establish joint commissions in equal numbers to resolve the issues related to their joint activities.
3. The committees and commissions shall issue resolutions on the matters of their responsibility.
4. The law shall govern the procedure of the establishment of these committees, their powers and workflow management.

Section 98. Original section/article: 61. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic, the Deputies of Parliament and the Government shall have the right of a legislative initiative which shall be realized only in the Mazhilis.
2. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to determine priority consideration of draft laws which means that the draft law shall be adopted as a matter of urgency within two months. 
Draft laws introduced as a legislative initiative of the Government of the Republic in order to promptly respond to the conditions that threaten the life and health of the population, the constitutional order, the protection of public order, and the economic security of the country, shall be subject to consideration by the Parliament immediately at a joint session of its Chambers.
3. Parliament shall have the right to issue laws that regulate the most important public relations and establish fundamental principles and standards relating to:
1) the legal capacity of individuals and legal entities, civil freedoms and rights, and the obligations and responsibilities of individuals and legal entities;
2) the system of ownership and other real property rights;
3) the basis of the organization and activities of central and local government bodies and of civil and military service;
4) taxation and the application of fees and other mandatory charges;
5) the republican budget;
6) issues of the judicial system and legal proceedings;
7) education, health care and social provisions;
8) the privatization of enterprises and their property;
9) environmental protection;
10) the administrative and territorial structure of the Republic;
11) national defence and security.
All other issues are covered by local by-laws.
In case of introduction of draft laws to the Parliament provided for by part two of paragraph 2 of this article, the Government of the Republic shall have the right to adopt, under its own responsibility the temporary regulatory legal acts having the force of law on the issues specified in part one of this paragraph, which are valid until the entry into force of laws adopted by the Parliament or until the Parliament does not adopt the laws.
4. A law adopted by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Mazhilis shall be submitted to the Senate, where it is considered for no more than sixty days. 
The Majilis as a whole shall have the right to reject the draft law by a majority vote of the total number of deputies. The rejected draft law shall be considered not adopted and returned to the initiator. 
A law approved by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Senate shall be submitted to the President for signing within ten days. If the Senate does not approve the law as a whole or its certain articles, then the law shall be returned to the Mazhilis. At the same time, the Senate shall have the right to propose a new version of certain articles of the law to the Mazhilis. 
In the event that the Senate has not adopted a relevant decision within sixty days, the law shall be submitted to the President for signing.
5. If the Mazhilis, by a majority vote of the total number of deputies, agrees with the wording of certain Articles of the law proposed by the Senate, the law shall be considered adopted by the Mazhilis in a new version and approved by the Senate and shall be submitted to the President for signing within ten days. 
If the Mazhilis, by the same majority of votes, objects to the wording of certain articles of the law proposed by the Senate, and also if the Senate has not approved the law as a whole, disagreements between the Chambers shall be resolved through conciliation procedures. 
The version of the law worked out by the conciliation commission shall be subject to consideration by the Majilis and the Senate in the manner prescribed by paragraph 4 of this article. 
In cases when the Majilis, by a majority of votes from the total number of deputies of the Chamber, did not adopt the law in the wording proposed by the conciliation commission, the Majilis shall conduct a second vote on the law in the previously adopted version. 
If, during the repeated voting, the Mazhilis confirms the earlier made decision by a two-thirds majority of the total number of deputies of the Chamber, the law shall be submitted to the President for signing within ten days. 
If the law does not gain the indicated majority of votes of the deputies of the Majilis, the law is considered not adopted and is returned to the initiator.
5-1. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023). 
6. The draft laws that provide for the reduction of state revenues or increase in state expenditures may only be submitted when there is a positive resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This resolution shall not be required with respect to the draft laws that are subject to consideration by the Mazhilis of the Parliament as part of the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
7. If the draft law submitted by the Government has not been adopted, the Prime- Minister shall have the right to raise an issue of confidence in the Government at a joint session of the Chambers. The voting on this issue shall be held no earlier than forty-eight hours from the moment of calling for a vote of confidence. If the call for a vote of confidence does not receive the majority vote of the total number of deputies of each Chambers, a draft law shall be deemed to be adopted without voting. However, the Government may not exercise this right more than twice a year.
Footnote: See regulatory resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 3/2 dated March 12, 1999; dated 27.09.1999 № 18/2; N 19/2 dated November 3, 1999; No 9/2 dated June 15, 2000; No15/2 dated July 3, 2000; No 8/2 dated June 8, 2001; dated 13.05.2003 № 6; dated 15.10.2008 № 8. 
Footnote:

Section 99. Original section/article: 61. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended pursuant to the Laws of Republic of Kazakhstan N 254-III dated May 21, 2007 (shall be enacted from the day of its official publication), dated March 10, 2017; № 51-VI (shall be enacted from the day of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 100. Original section/article: 62. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Parliament adopts legislative acts in the form of laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, resolutions of Parliament, and resolutions of the Senate and the Mazhilis which are binding throughout the territory of the Republic.
2. The laws of the Republic come into force after the President of the Republic signs them.
3. Amendments and additions to the Constitution shall be made by a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes of the total number of deputies in each Chamber.
4. Constitutional laws shall be adopted on issues stipulated by the Constitution by a majority of at least two-thirds of the votes of the total number of deputies of each Chamber.
5. Laws shall be adopted by the Majilis, approved by the Senate by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Chambers, unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution.
Decisions of the Parliament and its Chambers shall be adopted by a majority vote of the total number of deputies of the Chambers, unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution.
6. Conducting of at least two readings on the issues of introducing amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on draft constitutional laws shall be mandatory.
7. Laws of the Republic and resolutions of Parliament and its Chambers shall not contradict the Constitution. Resolutions of Parliament and its Chambers should not contradict the laws.
8. The order of development, presentation, discussion, enactment and publication of legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Republic shall be governed by the special law and regulation of Parliament and its Chambers.
Footnote. See resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 03, 2000 No. 15/2; as of April 18, 2007, No. 4. 
Footnote.

Section 101. Original section/article: 62. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication; dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 102. Original section/article: 63. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic, after consulting with the chairpersons of the Chambers of Parliament and the Prime Minister, may dissolve Parliament or the Mazhilis of Parliament.
2. The Parliament and Mazhilis of the Parliament cannot be dissolved during a state of emergency or martial law, or during the last six months of the office of the President, or within one year of the previous dissolution.
Footnote.

Section 103. Original section/article: 63. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication). 
Section V 
Government

Section 104. Original section/article: 64. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Government exercises the executive power of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads the system of executive bodies and manages their activities.
2. The Government is a collegial body and within its activities is accountable to the President of the Republic and Parliament.
3. The members of the Government are accountable to the Chambers of Parliament in the case provided for in subparagraph 6) of

Section 105. Original section/article: 57. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution.
4. The competence, organization and activities of the Government are determined by constitutional law.
Footnote.

Section 106. Original section/article: 64. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 107. Original section/article: 65. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Government is formed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the manner prescribed by the Constitution.
2. Proposals on the structure and composition of the Government shall be made to the President of the Republic by the Prime Minister of the Republic within ten days of the appointment of the Prime Minister.
3. Government members take an oath to the people and the President of Kazakhstan.

Section 108. Original section/article: 66. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
1) develops the main directions of social and economic policy of the state, its defense, security and public order, and organizes their implementation; approves the state programmes in coordination with the President of the Republic, and also ensures their implementation;
2) submits to Parliament the republican budget along with a report on its execution, and ensures execution of the budget;
3) submits draft laws to the Mazhilis and ensures implementation of laws;
4) organizes the management of state property;
5) develops measures for the conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic;
6) manages the activities of ministries, state committees, and other central and local executive bodies;
7) has the power to cancel or suspend, either in whole or in part, the actions of ministries, state committees, or other central and local executive bodies of the Republic;
8) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); 
9) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; 
9-1) by an agreement with the President of the Republic, approves a unified system of financing and remunerating employees for all bodies maintained at the expense of the state budget;
10) performs other functions assigned to it by the Constitution, laws and acts of the President.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.03.1999 No. 4/2; dated 12.04.2001 № 1/2. 
Footnote.

Section 109. Original section/article: 66. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 110. Original section/article: 67. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
1) organizes and manages the activities of the Government, and is personally responsible for its work;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); 
3) signs orders of the Government;
4) reports to the President and Parliament on the main activities of the Government and on all its major decisions; 
5) performs other functions related to the organization and management of the Government.
Footnote.

Section 111. Original section/article: 67. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 112. Original section/article: 68. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Government members are independent in making decisions within their competence and are personally accountable to the Prime Minister of the Republic for the work of state bodies subordinate to them. A member of the Government who does not agree with the policy pursued by the Government or does not implement it should resigns or will be dismissed.
2. Government members may not be deputies of a representative body, occupy other paid positions, except for teaching, scientific or other creative activities carry out entrepreneurial activities, or be part of the governing body or supervisory board of a commercial organization, except when it is their job in accordance with the law.
Footnote.

Section 113. Original section/article: 68. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be entered into force from the date of its official publication).

Section 114. Original section/article: 69. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, within matters of its competence, issues decrees that are binding throughout the territory of the Republic.
2. The Prime Minister of the Republic shall issue binding orders on the entire territory of the Republic.
3. Government decrees and orders of the Prime Minister should not contradict the Constitution, legislative acts, or decrees and orders of the President of the Republic.

Section 115. Original section/article: 70. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Government shall resign its powers to the newly elected Mazhilis of the Parliament of the Republic.
2. The Government and any member thereof shall have the right to declare to the President of the Republic that they will resign if they consider it impossible to continue to perform the functions assigned to them.
3. The Government shall declare its resignation to the President of the Republic if the Mazhilis of the Parliament or the Parliament expresses a vote of no confidence in the Government.
4. The President of the Republic shall, within ten days, consider accepting or rejecting the resignation.
5. Acceptance of a resignation means termination of the authority of the Government or its respective member. Accepting the resignation of the Prime Minister means the termination of powers of the entire Government.
6. If the resignation of the Government or its member is rejected, the President will entrust it or its member with the further implementation of its duties.
7. The President of the Republic has the right, on his own initiative, to decide on the termination of the powers of the Government and to release any member from their position. The release of the Prime Minister from office means the termination of powers of the entire Government.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 11 dated November 19, 2003. 
Footnote.

Section 116. Original section/article: 70. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication). 
Section VI
Constitutional Court
Footnote. The title of section VI is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06. 2022).

Section 117. Original section/article: 71. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall consist of eleven judges, including the Chairman, whose powers shall last for eight years.
The same person may not be appointed as a judge of the Constitutional Court more than once.
2. The Chairman of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic with the consent of the Senate of the Parliament.
3. Four judges of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic, three judges of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed respectively by the Senate and the Majilis.
The Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic on the proposal of the Chairman of the Constitutional Court from among the judges of the Constitutional Court. 
4. The position of a judge of the Constitutional Court is incompatible with a deputy mandate, holding other paid positions, except for teaching, scientific or other creative activities, carrying out entrepreneurial activities, being a member of the governing body or supervisory board of a commercial organization. 
5. Judges of the Constitutional Court, during their term of powers, may not be arrested, brought to justice, subjected to administrative penalties imposed in court, or brought to criminal responsibility without the consent of the Parliament, except in cases of detention at the scene of a crime or serious crimes.
6. The organization and activities of the Constitutional Court shall be regulated by the constitutional law.
Footnote.

Section 118. Original section/article: 71. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022); dated September 17, 2022, No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the date of its first official publication).

Section 119. Original section/article: 72. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Constitutional Court on the appeal of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Senate, the Chairman of the Majilis, at least one fifth of the total number of deputies of the Parliament, the Prime Minister shall: 
1) decide, in case of a dispute, the issue of correctness of holding elections of the President of the Republic, deputies of the Parliament and holding a republican referendum;
2) consider the laws adopted by the Parliament for their compliance with the Constitution of the Republic before signing by the President;
2-1) consider the resolutions adopted by the Parliament and its Chambers for compliance with the Constitution of the Republic; 
3) consider international treaties of the Republic for their compliance with Constitution before ratification;
4) give an official interpretation of the norms of the Constitution;
5) give conclusions in the cases provided for by paragraphs 1 and 2 of

Section 120. Original section/article: 47. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution.
2. The Constitutional Court shall consider the appeals of the President of the Republic in the cases provided for by subparagraph 10-1) of

Section 121. Original section/article: 44. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, as well as the appeals of the courts in the cases established by

Section 122. Original section/article: 78. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution. 
3. The Constitutional Court on the appeals of citizens, shall consider the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan that directly affect their rights and freedoms, enshrined in the Constitution for compliance with the Constitution of the Republic. 
The procedure and conditions for the appeals of citizens to the Constitutional Court shall be determined by the constitutional law.
4. The Constitutional Court, upon the appeals of the Prosecutor General of the Republic shall consider the issues specified in subparagraphs 3) and 4) of paragraph 1 of this article, as well as the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan for their compliance with the Constitution of the Republic. 
5. The Constitutional Court, on the appeal of the Commissioner for Human Rights shall consider the regulatory legal acts affecting the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution for compliance with the Constitution of the Republic.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 03, 2000 No. 15/2; dated 13.12.2001 No. 19/2. 
Footnote.

Section 123. Original section/article: 72. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 124. Original section/article: 73. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. In case of applying to the Constitutional Court on the issues specified in subparagraph 1) of paragraph 1 of

Section 125. Original section/article: 72. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, the inauguration of the President, registration of elected deputies of the Parliament or the summing up of the results of the republican referendum shall be suspended.
2. In case of applying to the Constitutional Court on the issues specified in subparagraphs 2) and 3) of paragraph 1 of

Section 126. Original section/article: 72. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, the period for signing or ratifying the relevant acts shall be suspended.
3. The Constitutional Court shall make its decision within the terms established by the constitutional law.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 127. Original section/article: 73. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 128. Original section/article: 74. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Laws and international treaties recognized as non-compliant with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan may not be signed or, accordingly, ratified and enforced.
2. Laws and other legal acts, their separate provisions, recognized as unconstitutional, including those infringing on the rights and freedoms of a human and a citizen enshrined in the Constitution shall be cancelled and shall not be subject to application from the date the decision is taken by the Constitutional Court or from the date established by it.
3. Decisions of the Constitutional Court shall enter into force from the day of their adoption, shall be binding on the entire territory of the Republic, final and shall not be subject to appeal.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 13, 2001 No. 19/2. 
Footnote.

Section 129. Original section/article: 74. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023). 
Section VII
Courts and Justice. Prosecutor's office. Commissioner for Human Rights
Footnote. The title of section VII is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 130. Original section/article: 75. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Justice in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be exercised only by a court.
2. Judicial power is exercised through civil, criminal and other forms of legal proceedings established by law. In cases provided by law, criminal proceedings are conducted with the participation of jurors.
3. The courts of the Republic are the Supreme Court of the Republic and local and other courts of the Republic established by law.
4. The judicial system of the Republic is established by the Constitution of the Republic and constitutional law. The establishment of special and emergency courts under any name is not allowed. 
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.02.2002 No. 1; dated 14.04.2006 No. 1. 
Footnote.

Section 131. Original section/article: 75. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be entered into force from the date of its official publication).

Section 132. Original section/article: 76. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Judicial authority shall be exercised on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan and, by its purpose, has the protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens and organizations and the enforcement of the Constitution, laws, other normative legal acts and international treaties of the Republic.
2. The judicial power extends to all cases and disputes arising on the basis of the Constitution, laws, other regulatory legal acts and international treaties of the Republic.
3. Decisions, sentences and other rulings of the courts are binding throughout the territory of the Republic.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.1999 No. 7/2; dated 20.12.2000 No. 21/2; dated April 18, 2007, No. 4.

Section 133. Original section/article: 77. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. A judge in the administration of justice is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law.
2. Any interference with the court’s administration of justice is unacceptable and punishable by law. Judges are not accountable for specific cases.
3. When applying the law, the judge shall be guided by the following principles:
1) a person is considered to be innocent of committing a crime until his guilt is recognized by the court judgment that has entered into legal force;
2) no one may be subjected to repeated criminal or administrative liability for the same offense;
3) no one’s court jurisdiction, provided for him by law, can be changed without his consent;
4) everyone has the right to be heard in court;
5) laws that establish or strengthen liability, impose new duties on citizens or worsen their situation, do not have retroactive effect. If, after committing the offense, the responsibility for it is cancelled or mitigated by law, the new law shall be applied;
6) the accused is not obliged to prove his innocence;
7) no one is obliged to testify against himself, or his spouse (-s) and close relatives, whose circle is determined by law. Priests are not obliged to testify against those who confided in them at confession;
8) any doubts about the guilt of the person shall be interpreted in favour of the accused;
9) evidence obtained in an unlawful manner is not legally binding. No one can be convicted solely on the basis of his own confession;
10) the application of criminal law by analogy is not allowed.
4. The principles of justice established by the Constitution are common and uniform for all courts and judges of the Republic.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.1999 No. 2/2; dated April 18, 2007, No. 4.

Section 134. Original section/article: 78. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Courts shall not be entitled to apply the laws and other normative legal acts that infringe on the rights and freedoms of a human and a citizen enshrined in the Constitution. If the court sees that a law or other normative legal act to be applied infringes on the rights and freedoms of a human and a citizen enshrined in the Constitution, it shall be obliged to suspend the proceedings and apply to the Constitutional Court with a motion to recognize this act as unconstitutional.
Footnote.

Section 135. Original section/article: 78. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (effective from 01.01.2023).

Section 136. Original section/article: 79. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The courts consist of permanent judges whose independence is protected by the Constitution and the law. The powers of a judge may be terminated or suspended solely on the grounds established by law.
2. A judge may not be arrested, brought in, have administrative measures imposed against him in court or be brought to criminal responsibility without the consent of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, based on the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic, or in the case established by subparagraph 3) of

Section 137. Original section/article: 55. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, - without the consent of the Senate, except in cases of detention at the crime scene or committing serious crimes.
3. Requirements for judges of the courts of the Republic shall be determined by constitutional law.
4. The position of a judge is incompatible with the following roles: a deputy’s mandate, the occupation of another paid position except for teaching, scientific or other creative activities,; entrepreneurial activities, and joining the governing body or supervisory board of a commercial organization. 
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.03.1997 No. 3; dated January 30, 2003 No. 10; dated 18.06.2004 No. 7; dated 23.06.2004 No. 6. 
Footnote.

Section 138. Original section/article: 79. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 139. Original section/article: 80. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Funding of courts and the provision of judges with housing is carried out at the expense of the republican budget and should ensure the possibility of full and independent administration of justice.

Section 140. Original section/article: 81. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the highest judicial body in civil, criminal and other cases, jurisdictional, local and other courts, and in cases stipulated by law it considers cases related to its jurisdiction and gives explanations on matters of judicial practice.
Footnote.

Section 141. Original section/article: 81. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 142. Original section/article: 82. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Chairperson and judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan are elected by the Senate on the proposal of the President of the Republic, based on recommendation of the High Judicial Council.
2. The Chairpersons and judges of local and other courts are appointed by the President of the Republic based on the recommendation of the High Judicial Council.
3. In accordance with constitutional law, judicial panels may be established in courts. The procedure for empowering the chairpersons of the judicial boards shall be determined by constitutional law.
4. The Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be appointed by the President of the Republic with the consent of the Senate of the Parliament.
5. The status, procedure for the formation of the composition and organization of the work of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be determined by law.
Footnote.

Section 143. Original section/article: 82. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 144. Original section/article: 83. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Prosecutor’s Office, on behalf of the state and in the limits and forms established by law, supervises the observance of legality on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, represents the interests of the state in court, and carries out criminal prosecutions on behalf of the state.
2. The Office of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic shall compile a single centralized system with the subordination of the lower level prosecutors to the higher and to the Prosecutor General of the Republic. It exercises its authority independently of other state bodies and officials, and is accountable only to the President of the Republic.
3. The Prosecutor General of the Republic during his term of office may not be arrested, brought to trial, be subject to administrative measures imposed in court or brought to criminal responsibility without the consent of the Senate, except in cases of detention at the crime scene or committing serious crimes. The term of office of the Prosecutor General is five years.
4. The competence, organization and procedure for the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic shall be determined by the constitutional law.
Footnote. See the resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2000 No. 23/2; dated January 30, 2003 No. 10; dated 31.12.2003 № 13. 
Footnote.

Section 145. Original section/article: 83. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 146. Original section/article: 83-1. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall contribute to the restoration of violated rights and freedoms of a human and a citizen, promote the rights and freedoms of a human and a citizen.
2. When exercising his/her powers, the Commissioner for Human Rights shall be independent and not accountable to state bodies and officials. 
3. During the term of his/her powers, the Commissioner for Human Rights may not be arrested, brought to justice, subjected to administrative penalties imposed in court, brought to criminal responsibility without the consent of the Senate, except for cases of detention at the scene of a crime or serious crimes.
4. The legal status and organization of activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights shall be determined by the constitutional law.
Footnote. The Constitution is supplemented by

Section 147. Original section/article: 83-1. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 148. Original section/article: 84. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication).
Section VIII. State Administration and Self-Government

Section 149. Original section/article: 85. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Local state administration is carried out by local representatives and executive bodies that are responsible for the state of affairs in the relevant territory.

Section 150. Original section/article: 86. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Maslikhats are local representative bodies that express the will of the population and of the respective administrative-territorial units and, taking into account national interests, determine the measures necessary for its implementation and control their implementation.
2. Maslikhats shall be elected by the population on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot for a term of five years.
3. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan who has reached twenty years of age may be elected deputy of the Maslikhat. A citizen of the Republic may be a deputy of only one Maslikhat.
4. The jurisdiction of Maslikhats includes:
1) the approval of plans, economic and social development programs of the territory and local budgets, and reports on their execution;
2) the solution of issues related to their jurisdiction of the local administrative-territorial structure;
3) the consideration of reports of the heads of local executive bodies on issues that are referred by law to the competence of the Maslikhat;
4) the formation of standing commissions and other working bodies of the Maslikhat, the hearing of reports on their activities, and the solution of other issues related to organization of work in Maslikhat;
5) implementation in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of other powers to ensure the rights and legitimate interests of citizens.
5. The powers of the Maslikhat may be terminated early by the President of the Republic following consultations with the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Chambers of Parliament, as well as if the Maslikhat makes a decision on self-dissolution.
6. The competence of Maslikhats, the order of their organization and activities, and the legal status of their deputies are established by law.
Footnote.

Section 151. Original section/article: 86. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication).

Section 152. Original section/article: 87. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Local executive bodies are included in the unified system of executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and ensure the implementation of the state-wide policy of the executive power in combination with the interests and development needs of the relevant territory.
2. The jurisdiction of local executive bodies includes:
1) the development of plans, economic and social development programs of the territory, and local budget, including ensuring their implementation;
2) the management of communal property;
3) the appointment and dismissal of heads of local executive bodies, and the solution of other issues related to the organization of work of local executive bodies;
4) the implementation in the interests of the local government of other powers imposed on local executive bodies by the legislation of the Republic.
3. Each local executive body is headed by the Akim (Mayor) of the relevant administrative and territorial unit, which is the representative of the President and the Government of the Republic.
4. Akims of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital shall be appointed by the President of the Republic with the consent of deputies of maslikhats located on the territory of the region, or deputies of maslikhats of cities of republican significance and the capital, respectively.
The President of the Republic shall propose at least two candidates for which a vote is held. The candidate who received the most votes of the deputies of the maslikhats, taken part in the voting shall be considered to have received consent.
Akims of other administrative-territorial units shall be appointed or elected to the position, as well as dismissed from the position in the manner prescribed by law. The President of the Republic shall have the right, at his/her own discretion, to dismiss akims of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital.
5. On the initiative of at least one-fifth of the total number of Maslikhat deputies, the question of expressing a vote of no confidence in the Akim may be raised. In this case, the maslikhat, by a majority vote of the total number of its deputies shall have the right to express no confidence in the akim and raise the issue of his/her dismissal from the position, respectively, before the President of the Republic in relation to akims of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital, or by a higher akim in relation to akims of other administrative-territorial units. Powers of Akims of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital shall be terminated when the newly elected President of the Republic takes office.
6. The competence of local executive bodies, the organization and the procedure for their activities shall be established by law.
Footnote.

Section 153. Original section/article: 87. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 154. Original section/article: 88. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Maslikhats make decisions on issues of their competence, and Akims make decisions and orders that are binding on the territory of the corresponding administrative and territorial unit.
2. Draft decisions of Maslikhats providing for a reduction in local budget revenues or an increase in local budget expenditures can be submitted for consideration only if there is a positive conclusion by an Akim.
3. Decisions of Maslikhats that do not comply with the Constitution and legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be cancelled in court.
4. Decisions and orders of akims can be cancelled, respectively, by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan or a higher akim, as well as in a judicial proceeding.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.05.2000 No. 3/2. 
Footnote.

Section 155. Original section/article: 88. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022).

Section 156. Original section/article: 89. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, local self-government is recognized, which provides for independent decision-making by the population regarding local issues.
2. Local self-government is exercised by the population directly, as well as through Maslikhats and other local self-government bodies in local communities covering the territories in which population groups live compactly.
In accordance with the law, local governments may be delegated the exercise of state functions.
3. The organization and activities of local self-government in Kazakhstan are regulated by law.
4. Independence of local governments is guaranteed within the limits of their authority established by law.
Footnote.

Section 157. Original section/article: 89. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication). 
Section IX
Final and Transitional Provisions

Section 158. Original section/article: 90. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adopted at a republican referendum, enters into force from the day of the official publication of the results of the referendum, with simultaneous termination of the previously adopted Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The day of adoption of the Constitution at a republican referendum is declared a public holiday - the Day of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 159. Original section/article: 91. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be introduced by a republican referendum, held by decision of the President of the Republic, adopted by him on his own initiative or on the proposal of Parliament or the Government. The draft amendments and additions to the Constitution shall not be submitted to the republican referendum if the President decides to submit it to Parliament. The decision of Parliament shall be made in this case in the manner prescribed by the Constitution. If the President of the Republic rejects the proposal of Parliament to submit amendments and additions to the Constitution to the republican referendum, the Parliament has the right to adopt a law that makes these amendments and additions to the Constitution by a majority of at least four fifth votes of the total number of deputies of each Chamber of Parliament. In this case, the President of the Republic signs this law or submits it to the republican referendum, which is considered valid if more than half of the citizens of the Republic who have the right to participate in the republican referendum took part in the vote. Amendments and additions to the Constitution which are submitted to the republican referendum, are considered adopted if more than half of the citizens who took part in the voting voted for them in at least two thirds of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital.
2. The independence of the state, the unitarity and territorial integrity of the Republic, the form of its government, the fundamental principles of the activities of the Republic, established by the Constitution, the provisions that the President of the Republic is elected for a term of seven years and the same person may not be elected President of the Republic more than once, shall be unchanged.
3. Amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic shall be submitted to a republican referendum or to the consideration of the Parliament of the Republic if there is a conclusion of the Constitutional Court on their compliance with the requirements established by paragraph 2 of this article.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.12.1998 No. 13/2. 
Footnote.

Section 160. Original section/article: 91. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I; dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication); dated 10.03.2017 No. 51-VI (shall be enforced from the date of its first official publication); dated 08.06.2022 (for the procedure for putting into effect, see

Section 161. Original section/article: 3. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
); dated September 17, 2022, No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the date of its first official publication).

Section 162. Original section/article: 92. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Constitutional laws shall be adopted within a year from the day the Constitution enters into force. If laws that are defined as constitutional in the Constitution, or acts that have the power of such have been adopted by the time it enters into force, then they are brought into line with the Constitution and are considered constitutional laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Other laws named in the Constitution shall be adopted in the order and terms determined by the Parliament, but not later than two years from the day the Constitution enters into force.
3. Decrees of the President of the Republic, issued during the term of exercising additional powers in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 10, 1993 On the temporary delegation of additional powers to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and heads of local administrations and having the force of law, may be modified, added or cancelled only in the manner which provides for the changing, supplementing or repealing of the laws of the Republic. Decrees of the President of the Republic, issued during the term of exercising additional powers, on matters provided for by paragraphs 12-15, 18 and 20 of

Section 163. Original section/article: 64. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adopted on January 28, 1993, are not subject to approval by the Parliament of the Republic.
4. Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan which is in force at the time the Constitution comes into force shall be applied to the extent that does not contradict the Constitution, and within two years of the date of adoption of the Constitution should be brought into line with it.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 15, 2000 No. 8/2.

Section 164. Original section/article: 93. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In order to implement

Section 165. Original section/article: 7. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, the Government along with local representative and executive bodies are obliged to create all the necessary organizational, material and technical conditions for free, as well as free of charge learning of the state language by all citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with a special law.

Section 166. Original section/article: 94. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan which is in force at the time the Constitution enters into force, acquires the powers of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan established by it and implements these powers during the period established by the decision adopted at the republican referendum on April 29, 1995. With the consent of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the present term of office of the President of the Republic may be reduced by a resolution of the Parliament of the Republic adopted at a joint meeting of its Chambers by a majority of votes from the total number of deputies of each Chamber. In this case, the Mazhilis of the Parliament shall, within one month, appoint the election of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The President of the Republic, elected on the basis of these elections, shall take the oath within one month of the date of publication of the election results, and exercises his authority until taking office as President of the Republic, elected at the next presidential election, to be held after seven years on the first Sunday of December.
2. The Vice-President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in force at the time the Constitution enters into force, shall retain his authority until the expiration of the term for which he was elected.
Footnote. See the resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated August 19, 2005 No. 5. 
Footnote.

Section 167. Original section/article: 94. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I.

Section 168. Original section/article: 94-1. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The provision of paragraph 1 of

Section 169. Original section/article: 41. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, which determines the term of office of the President of the Republic, applies to a person who will be elected President of the Republic following the presidential election held in connection with the expiration of the seven-year term of office of the President of the Republic elected in the elections dated December 4, 2005.
Footnote. The Constitution is supplemented by

Section 170. Original section/article: 94-1. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2007 No. 254-III (shall be enforced from the date of its official publication).

Section 171. Original section/article: 94-2. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The provision of Paragraph 5 of

Section 172. Original section/article: 42. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution shall apply to persons elected President of the Republic following the results of presidential elections held after the entry into effect of this norm of the Constitution.
The provision of Paragraph 5 of

Section 173. Original section/article: 42. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution shall apply to persons elected President of the Republic following the results of presidential elections held after the entry into effect of this norm of the Constitution.
Footnote. The Constitution is supplemented by

Section 174. Original section/article: 94-2. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated September 17, 2022, No. 142-VII (shall come into effect from the day of its first official publication).

Section 175. Original section/article: 95. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. One half of the deputies of the Senate of the first convocation shall be elected for a term of four years, the other half of the deputies for a term of two years, in accordance with the procedure established by constitutional law.
2. The provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the election of deputies of the Mazhilis of Parliament and on the basis of party lists, apply after the election of deputies of the Mazhilis of Parliament of the second convocation. 
Footnote. See the resolution of Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.29.1999 No. 24/2. 
Footnote.

Section 176. Original section/article: 95. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.10.1998 No. 284-I.

Section 177. Original section/article: 96. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
From the day the Constitution enters into force, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Kazakhstan acquires the rights, duties and responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan established by it.

Section 178. Original section/article: 97. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The first composition of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan is formed as follows: each of the President of the Republic, the Chairperson of the Senate of Parliament and the Chairperson of the Mazhilis of the Parliament shall appoint one member of the Constitutional Council for a term of three years, with the exception of the Chairperson of the Constitutional Council who shall be appointed by the President Republic for a period of six years.

Section 179. Original section/article: 98. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. The bodies of justice and investigation provided for by the Constitution shall be formed in the manner and within the periods stipulated by the relevant laws. Prior to their formation, the existing justice and investigation bodies shall retain their authority.
2. Judges of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Arbitration Court, and local courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall retain their powers until the formation of courts stipulated by the Constitution. Vacant positions of judges shall be replaced in the manner prescribed by the Constitution.

Section 180. Original section/article: 99. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Until the formation of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Audit Chamber, the chairmen and members of the Constitutional Council and the Accounts Committee for Control over the Execution of the Republican Budget shall retain their powers.
Until the formation of the Constitutional Court, the functions of the Constitutional Court, provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of

Section 181. Original section/article: 72. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Constitution, shall be carried out by the Constitutional Council. 
2. Normative resolutions of the Constitutional Council shall be applied to the extent that they do not contradict the Constitution until they are reviewed by the Constitutional Court.
3. The provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the formation of the Chambers of the Parliament shall apply starting from the elections of deputies of the Mazhilis of the Parliament of the eighth convocation. 
Footnote. The Constitution shall be supplemented by

Section 182. Original section/article: 99. Source: Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.06.2022 (shall be enforced from 08.06.2022). 
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
