Kazakhstan source: Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals
Category: Immigration and visas
Source URL: https://egov.kz/cms/en/articles/move_abroad/exit-entry_of_foreign_nationals
Note: Official eGov practical guidance on entry, stay and receiving-party notification.

Section 1. Original section/article: 518. Source: Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals.
of Code "On Administrative Offenses " 
**

Section 2. Original section/article: 48. Source: Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals.
of the Law "On Population Migration" 
Monthly calculation index (hereinafter - MCI ) for 2025 is KZT 3 932 . 
Unilateral visa-free regime 
Foreigners from 54 countries do not need a visa to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan. Foreigners can use the visa-free regime to visit Kazakhstan for tourist, guest and business purposes.
Facilitated visa-free entry allows foreigners to stay and move throughout the country for 30 calendar days. It is enough to have a valid passport only.
Note: the total period of stay in Kazakhstan should not exceed 90 calendar days during each 180-day period, but not more than 120 days during one calendar year. For a longer stay, it is recommended to apply for a relevant visa. 
Visa-free regime under bilateral agreements 
A visa is not required for citizens from countries with which Kazakhstan has ratified bilateral agreements on mutual visa-free travel.
Visa regime 
You may need a visa depending on the purpose of your visit and the length of your stay in Kazakhstan. For example, a B2 visa is issued when the purpose is to deliver consulting services.
The most common visa categories issued in Kazakhstan are listed below:
Change of visa category 
The applicable migration rules provide for the possibility of changing a visa of one category to another without a need for a foreigner to leave Kazakhstan.
Facilitated visa processing procedure 
According to the current regulations, a visa is issued based on an invitation from the Kazakh side. However, such an invitation is not required for citizens from 48 countries* obtaining a single-entry visa for up to 30 days of the following category: 
A3 official
B1, B3 business 
B10 private
B12 tourist
This means that you can apply for a visa at the Consulate of Kazakhstan in your country of residence without an invitation letter from the Kazakh side.
*48 economically developed and politically stable countries
Temporary Residence Permit (TRP) 
A temporary residence permit is issued to citizens of the CIS countries. 
The TRC is issued for a period of up to 1 year for the following purposes:
labour activity (based on an employment contract and an independent contractor agreement (for the EAEU countries), a work permit, a labor patent)
entrepreneurial activity as a business immigrant
family reunion
study
medical treatment
missionary activity
A receiving party (individual or legal person) applies for a clearence via Citizen Service Center or a foreigner himself/herself can do this, if there is a notification available on arrival of a foreign citizen (see page 4) and IIN*. Temporary residence permit is not needed for children under 16 years old. Though it is requested from a spouse, as well as children older than 16 years old.
Note: when leaving Kazakhstan, TRC remains valid until the end of the issuance period. There is no need to get TRC again, the next time you enter the country. 
*An IIN is necessary for a foreigner to open a bank account, receive salary on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, issue a digital signature, get public services, pay national duties, consular fees and make other payments. 
Visa fees 
Below is a table of national duties for processing Kazakhstan visas for a current year.
The amount of national duty is indicated in the MCI . 
Procedure 
National duty 
Registration of a letter of invitation for a visa
0.5 MCI 
Issuance of a multiple-entry visa on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
30 MCI 
Extension of the validity period of a multiple-entry visa on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
30 MCI 
Exit visa processing (visa cancellation)
0.5 MCI 
Issuance of a B8 visa for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit
7 MCI (single-entry visa)
30 MCI (multiple-entry visa)
MCI in 2023 is KZT 3.450
Note: consular fee rates for visa issuance in foreign missions of the Republic of Kazakhstan left unchanged: 
Single-entry visa: $ 80 
Multiple-entry visa: $ 200 (for 1 year) 
Administrative offenses
In relation to a foreigner 
(

Section 3. Original section/article: 517. Source: Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Administrative Offenses") 
Type of offence 
National duty 
Untimely departure from the country within the time limits established by law:
up to 3 days
from 3 to 5 days
from 5 to 1 days
over 1 days

warning
10 MCI 
15 MCI 
25 MCI (or deportation)
Repeated violation within a year after a penalty was imposed
15 MCI (or deportation)
Carrying out work activities without a work permit (when applicable), non-compliance of the activities carried out with the purposes specified in a visa
25 MCI (either arrest for 10 days or deportation)
In relation to a receiving person (

Section 4. Original section/article: 518. Source: Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals.
of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Administrative Offenses") 
Type of offence 
National duty 
Untimely notification of a migration service about arrival of a foreigner, as well as failure to take measures to issue documents for the right of stay of foreigners and their timely departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan
10 MCI /small business entity 15 MCI /medium business entity 20 MCI /large business entity
Repeated violation within a year after a penalty was imposed
40 MCI / small business entity
70 MCI / medium business entity
100 MCI / large business entity
prohibition on issuing invitation letters
Laws and regulations 
The information in the migration digest has been prepared based on the following regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of February 2023:
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Population Migration"
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Legal Status of Foreigners"
Rules for issuing invitations, approving invitations for foreigners and stateless persons to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan, issuing, canceling, restoring visas of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as extending and reducing their validity periods
Rules of entry and stay of immigrants in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as their departure from the Republic of Kazakhstan and Rules of migration control, as well as registration of foreigners and stateless persons illegally crossing the state border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as persons who are prohibited from entering the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Rules for provision by receiving persons of information about immigrants staying with them, as well as transit travel of foreigners and stateless persons on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Administrative Offenses"
External resources
E-licensing 
Taxpayer cabinet 
Judicial office 
Debtor-creditor 
Activity calendar 
Anti-corruption measures 
State agencies of RK 
Constitution of the RK 
National symbols of the RK 
Address of the President of the RK 
State agencies of RK 
Anti-corruption measures 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Government for citizens
Reserve queue 
Contacts 
Services list 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
© Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Page up 
× 
Notification
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
For further working with egov.kz, you need to install the certificate issued by National Certification Authority of the Republic of Kazakhstan .
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
Close 
Help 
About Portal 
Personal account Help 
Total visitors per month:
Total visitors for yesterday:
Now on the portal:
URL:
Error:
Comment:
Send 
Cancel 
Спасибо, информация об ошибке принята.
Извините, в данный момент информация об ошибке не может быть обработана.
Попробуйте позже. 
OK 
CHAT_DOMAIN = 'https://kenes.1414.kz';
(function (d, s, id) {
var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
js = d.createElement(s);
js.id = id;
js.src = CHAT_DOMAIN + "/static/js/local_loader.js";
fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
})(document, 'script', 'chatbotscript');
