Kazakhstan source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications
Category: Business and investment
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/Z1400000202
Note: Permit and notification regime for business activities and operations.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Basic definitions used in this Law
The following basic definitions are used in this Law:
1) implementation of strategic, regulatory, implementation and control and supervisory functions within the limits of its competence;
1-1) the authorized body in the sphere of informatization – central executive body, carrying out management and inter-sectoral coordination in the sphere of informatization and "electronic government";
1-2) based on and in pursuance of the main directions of the domestic and foreign policy of the state, determined by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the main directions of the socio-economic policy of the state, its defense capability, security, ensuring public order, developed by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, forms the state policy on permits and notifications in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) qualification requirements – set of quantitative and qualitative regulations and indices characterizing an ability of an applicant and a licensee to engage in separate licensable type of activity and (or) subtype of a licensable type of activity submitted as upon issuance of the license and (or) annex to the license, so during the whole period of its validity;
3) body authorized for issuance of permission of the second category – the state body or civil servant the competence of which includes the functions on carrying out the permission order in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) owner of permission of the second category – an individual or legal entity having valid permission of the second category;
5) licensable type of activity – the type of activity (particular activity (operation, insurance classes) for engagement in which it is required to obtain a license in accordance with this Law;
6) license - permission of the first category, issued by the licensor to an individual or legal entity, as well as a branch of a foreign legal entity whose activity profile is provision of financial services, to pursue a licenceable type of activity or a subtype of a licenceable type of activity associated with a high level of danger;
7) licenser – the state body carrying out licensing in accordance with this Law;
8) licensee - an individual or legal entity, as well as a branch of a foreign legal entity whose profile is provision of financial services having a license;
9) subtype of licensable type of activity – specification of the relevant licensable type of activity within one license;
10) licensing – set of measures linked with issuance and re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license and duplicate of a license and (or) annexes to a license, carrying out of permission control, suspension, renewal and termination of a license validity and (or) annexes to license;
11) license alienation – possibility of reissuance of a license on another individual or legal entity without conducting procedure for conformance inspection to qualification requirements;
12) valid permission – issued, prolonged or re-issued permission the validity of which is not suspended or not terminated in accordance with this Law;
12-1) develops and approves regulatory legal acts in the field of permits and notifications in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13) applicant – an individual or legal entity, branch or representation of a legal entity, a licensee, owner of permission of the second category that referred to the relevant licensing body for passing the licensing or licensing procedure or directed notification;
13-1) automatic mode of checking the applicant and issuing a permit - a mode in which the consideration of the application and the issuance of a permit shall be carried out without the participation of the responsible person of the permitting authority
14) regulating state bodies – the state bodies liable for regulation of the entrepreneurial activity in a particular scope in which the permission or notification order is introduced or subject to introduction;
15) permission - confirmation of the right of an individual or legal entity, as well as a branch of a foreign legal entity whose profile is provision of financial services, for activities or actions (operations) performed by licensing authorities through licensing or licensing procedures;
16) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
17) licensing bodies – licensees and bodies authorized for issuance of permissions of the second category;
18) permission order – establishment of obligatoriness of a person to have valid permission provided by this Law before beginning of carrying out the activity or actions (operations);
19) licensing procedure – set of measures linked with the issuance of permission of the second category and commission of other actions provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in respect of him (her), as well as carrying out of permission control;
20) permission requirements – set of quantitative and qualitative regulations and indices characterizing ability of an applicant and owner of permission of the second category to carry out separate type of activity or action (operation) in respect of which the permission order is introduced, submitted as upon issuance of permission of the second category, so during the whole period of its validity;
20-1) permitting control before the issuance of a permit and (or) annex to the permit, as well as upon a sent notification (hereinafter referred to as permitting control) - the activities of licensing authorities aimed at establishing the applicant’s compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements before the issuance of a permit and (or) annex to permission, as well as upon notification sent;
21) state electronic register of permissions and notifications – a component of state informational system of permissions and notifications containing details on issued, re-issued, suspended, annulled, prolonged, renewed and terminated permissions and their duplicates, as well as on received notifications;
22) authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications – central state body carrying out the management and cross-sector coordination in the scope of permissions and notifications;
23) regulatory impact assessment of permission or notification order (hereinafter – regulatory impact assessment) – analytical procedure for correlation of profits and expenses from the introduced permission or notification order enabling assessing achievement of the purposes of the state regulation, as well asself-regulation of subjects of professional or entrepreneurial activity in the following;
24) tightening of permission or notification order – establishment of additional requirements, obligations or another increase of loads on applicants, licensees or owners of permissions of the second category;
25) state informational system of permissions and notifications – informational system that is a component of “electronic government” intended for carrying out of licensing, licensing procedures in electronic form in a part of receipt of permission with assignment of identification number, direction of notification by the applicant and ensuring of these processes;
26) electronic form of permission – permission in the form of electronic document drawn up and received with the use of state informational system of permissions and notifications equivalent to permission in hard copy;
27) historical data – information on permissions and notifications issued or directed during the period of temporary or permanent absence of possibility of licensing and start bodies carrying out receipt of notifications to maintain the state electronic register of permissions and notifications;
27-1) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
28) notification - a document drawn up by the applicant according to the form approved by the authorized body for permits and notifications, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, which informs on the beginning or termination of an activity or action;
29) notification order – establishment of obligatoriness of an individual or legal entity to notify the state body carrying out receipt of notifications before beginning of carrying out the activity or actions on this order established by this Law;
30) concurrent permission – the permission of the second category that is compulsory condition for issuance of another permission to the applicant in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
31) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 397-VI (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 3. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 12.11.2015 № 391-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication) dated17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016; dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 30.12.2020 № 397-VI (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 23.12.2023 № 50-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 4. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permissions and notifications
1. Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permissions and notifications is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and consists of this Law and other regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. If international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan establishes other rules than those provided by this Law, the rules of international treaty shall be applied.

Section 5. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Scope of activity of this Law
1. Force of this Law shall apply to all the permissions and notifications in the Republic of Kazakhstan satisfying the following sings at the same time:
1) permission shall be received, and notification shall be directed by an individual or legal entity for beginning of carrying out the activity or action (operation);
2) receipt of permission (except for concurrent permission) and direction of notification in accordance with requirements of the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan are compulsory for a circle of persons established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and carrying out of their activity or actions (operations) without their receipt shall entail criminal or administrative responsibility;
3) issuance of permission and receipt of notification shall be carried out by the authorized state bodies or civil servants of the authorized state bodies;
4) obligation on receipt of permission, direction of notification shall be imposed on: individuals and legal entities – subjects of private entrepreneurship; individuals acquiring the right to engage in regulated professional activity; individuals and legal entities that are not the subjects of private entrepreneurship but obliged to receive the same permissions for carrying out of own activity or actions (operations) as the subjects of private entrepreneurship;
5) bodies carrying out issuance of permission are authorized to conduct inspection of conformity to requirements established by the regulatory legal acts, and in case of non-conformance to requirements established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan – to refuse in issuance of permission;
6) permissions received by subjects of private entrepreneurship shall not be ground for further grating benefits to them (conditions of benefits).
2. Force of this Law shall not apply to:
1) permissions not provided in annexes 1 and 2 to this Law, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On technical regulation”;
2) state registration of legal entities and record registration of branches and representatives, state registration of termination of activity of legal entities, removal from record registration of branches and representatives;
3) accounting registration of foreign exchange agreements, notification of foreign exchange transactions, notification of accounts in foreign banks and accounting registration of such accounts, carried out in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Currency Regulation and Currency Control”;
4) state registration of issues of issue securities, notices, information and reports provided in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On securities market";
5) notifications (information) sent by issuers of securities and financial organizations when carrying out activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, in accordance with regulatory legal acts of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations;
5-1) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from16.12.2020); 
6) permissions not provided in annex 2 to this Law, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan”;
7) actions of the authorized body carrying out management in the scopes of natural monopolies and at regulated markets, in a part of regulation of the tariff making of subjects of natural monopolies and price formation of subjects of the regulated market;
7-1) purchase of unused property in the form of weapons and military equipment by foreign legal entities having a permit, issued by the licensor of the country of which they are a resident or another country where they are registered as participants in foreign economic activity, subject to obtaining an export license in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) permissions established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On state secrets”;
9) permits related to the fulfillment of flight safety and aviation security requirements and issued to individuals and legal entities by an authorized organization in the field of civil aviation;
10) activities of financial organizations, as well as other legal entities, carried out within a special regulatory regime in the manner and on the conditions established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On State Regulation, Control and Supervision of the Financial Market and Financial Organizations” and “On the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan”;
11) permits and notifications established as part of measures to protect the balance of payments, introduced in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Currency Regulation and Currency Control”.
Footnote.

Section 6. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 7. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); № 422-V as of 24.11.2015 (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after its first official publication) dated 02.07.2018 № 168-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 18.03.2019 № 237-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); № 249-VI as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.08.2019); от 03.07.2019 № 262-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from16.12.2020); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 8. Original section/article: 4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Basic principles of state regulation in the scope of permissions and notifications 
Basic principles of state regulation in the scope of permissions and notifications are:
1) balance of interests of a consumer, entrepreneurs and the state;
2) relevancy and effectiveness of introducing permission or notification order;
3) transparency of activity of the state bodies and accessibility of information;
4) mutual responsibility;
5) liberty from corruption;
6) legitimacy.
Footnote.

Section 9. Original section/article: 4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2021 № 95-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 10. Original section/article: 5. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Balance of interests of consumers, entrepreneurs and the state
1. Introduction of permission or notification order shall be carried out for the purpose of ensuring the sufficient safety level of the activity or actions (operations), maximal effective protection of rights of consumers upon minimal objectively necessary load on entrepreneurs.
2. Qualification and permission requirements shall ensure minimal necessary set of quantitative and qualitative regulations and indices sufficient to the applicant, licensee or owner of permission of the second category for ensuring of required level of safety of forthcoming activity and actions (operations) or object.
3. Licensing bodies shall not have the right to require representation of documents not provided directly by the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 11. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Relevancy and effectiveness of introduction of permission or notification order
1. Relevancy and effectiveness of introducing permission or notification order shall be ensured by introduction of compulsory procedures of substantiation, coordination and monitoring of their effectiveness in reaching the purposes of the state regulation.
2. Size of duties or payments recovered upon issuance of permissions, as well as in other cases, shall be determined from necessity of compensation of expenses of the state for administrating of permission order.
Upon restrictive character of regulation by the Laws of the republic of Kazakhstan, the recovery and amount of duties or payments may be provided upon issuance of permissions as a property qualification and restriction for market entry, as well as in respect of activity with a high level of danger or permissions issued for activity with limited resources or with the use of quotas.
3. Load from introduced permission or notification order shall be measures and assessed by regulatory impact assessment.
4. Selection of regulation instruments shall be carried out proceeding from assessment and principles of risk management in respect of the types of activity or actions (operations) and subjects of private entrepreneurship.
Dependently from level of danger linked with the forthcoming activity or action (operation) of different subjects of private entrepreneurship, the requirement on receipt of permission or direction of a notification may be established within one type of activity or action (operation).
5. Permission order shall be established in cases if requirements to the products provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, requirements on compulsory confirmation of conformity are insufficient for reaching the purposes of the state regulation.

Section 12. Original section/article: 7. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Transparency of activity of the state bodies and information availability
1. Introduction of amendments and (or) supplements into legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan concerning the permissions and (or) notifications shall be carried out after discussion of these amendments and (or) supplements with public.
2. Information available at the state bodies not limited to use and required to the interested persons shall be available.
3. Information on issued permits, sent notifications, conditions for issuing permits and sending notifications should be posted on the web portal of "electronic government" and Internet resources of state bodies, as well as on other informatization objects in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of providing state and socially responsible services in Kazakh and Russian, with the exception of information containing state secrets and other secrets protected by the Law.
4. All the procedures and requirements linked with introduction and carrying out of permission or notification order shall be understandable for all the interested persons.
Footnote.

Section 13. Original section/article: 7. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated. 09.01.2026 № 254-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 14. Original section/article: 8. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Mutual responsibility
1. State shall confirm ensuring of minimal security level by the licensee, owner of permission of the second category by issuance of permission in accordance with the purposes of the state regulation by the state.
2. Possibility of collegial consideration and (or) adoption of decision may be established as a rule in case of necessity of carrying out the assessment of experience and (or) qualification of an applicant or selection of the best conditions for carrying out the activity or action (operation) of the applicant in comparison with conditions of the other applicants.

Section 15. Original section/article: 9. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Liberty from corruption 
1. Upon introduction and carrying out of permission or notification order, the facts of a conflict of interests and selective enforcement of law shall be excluded.
2. For the purpose of limitation of contacts of individuals and legal entities with the state bodies in the process of licensing and licensing procedures upon adoption of regulatory legal acts regulating the procedure for carrying out the licensing procedures, as a rule, the application of a principle of “one window” upon which all necessary coordinations from the state bodies shall be received by the licensing bodies themselves shall be provided.
3. No one shall have the right to require from individuals and legal entities the existence of permissions or notifications not provided by this Law.

Section 16. Original section/article: 9-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Legitimacy 
Authorized state bodies or officials of authorized state bodies, when issuing a permit and receiving a notification, shall be obliged comply with the requirements of this Law and other regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 1 is amended with

Section 17. Original section/article: 9-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2021 № 95-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Chapter 2. STATE REGULATION SYSTEM IN THE SCOPE
OF PERMISSIONS AND NOTIFICATIONS

Section 18. Original section/article: 10. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Competence of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall include:
1) development of basic directions of the state policy in the scope of permissions and notifications;
1-1) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2023 № 223-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
2) determination of licensees and state bodies that shall carry out coordination of issuance of a license;
3) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 19. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
4) determination of bodies authorized to issue permissions of the second category, state bodies carrying out coordination of issuance of permission of the second category;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 20. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
6) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 21. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
7) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 22. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
8) approval of the list of poisons, production, processing, acquisition, storage, sale, use and destruction of which shall be subject to licensing;
9) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 23. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
10) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 24. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
11) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 25. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
12) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2023 № 223-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 26. Original section/article: 10. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 27. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 12.11.2015 № 391-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 19.04.2023 № 223-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 28. Original section/article: 11. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications
Competence of the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications shall include:
1) formation and implementation of the state policy in the field of permits and notifications;
1-1) creating conditions for development of self-regulation;
2) management of the development process, establishment of rights of access, ensuring of functioning of the state electronic register of permissions and notifications;
3) development and approval of forms of applications for receipt and re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license, forms of a license and (or) annex to a license;
4) development and approval of the regulatory legal act on approval of forms of notifications and rules of receipt of notifications by the state bodies, as well as on determination of state bodies carrying out receipt of notifications;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
6) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
7) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
8) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
9) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
10) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
11) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
12) approval of joint order with the authorized body in the scope of informatization on approval of the list of permissions subjected and not subjected to automation;
13) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 29. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); 
14) exercise of other powers provided by this Law, other Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 30. Original section/article: 11. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 31. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 19.04.2023 № 223-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 32. Original section/article: 12. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of regulating state bodies
1. Competence of regulating state bodies shall include:
1) development and coordination of drafts of regulatory legal acts on determination of licensers, state bodies that carry out the coordination of issuance of a license with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization;
1-1) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization and approval of the regulatory legal acts on approval of the qualification requirements and the list of documents confirming the conformance to them, with the exception of qualification requirements and the list of documents to licensable types of activity in the scope of gambling industry;
2) development and coordination of drafts of the regulatory legal acts on determination of the bodies authorized to issue permissions of the second category, state bodies that carry out coordination of issuance of permissions of the second category, with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization;
2-1) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization and approval of the regulatory legal acts on approval of permission requirements and the list of documents confirming the conformance to them;
3) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization and approval of the forms of applications for receipt of permission of the second category, forms of permissions of the second category;
4) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and the authorized body in the scope of informatization and approval of rules of carrying out the licensing procedures and rules of carrying out the activity or actions (operations) for which the licensing procedure is introduced by this Law;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
6) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
7) issuance of conclusions upon applications of individuals and legal entities on necessity or absence of necessity to receive permissions for carrying out of particular types of activity or actions (operations);
8) the exercise of other powers provided for by this Law, other laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations.
2. With regard to activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, qualifying requirements and the list of documents confirming compliance therewith, application forms for obtaining licenses and forms of a license and (or) annex thereto, licensing requirements and the list of documents confirming compliance therewith, application forms for obtaining permits and forms of permits of the second category, rules for licensing procedures and rules for carrying out activities or actions (operations), which require licensing under this Law, notification forms and the procedure for receiving notifications, which are subject to the notification procedure under this Law, shall be developed and approved within the competence of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in agreement with the authorized body for permits and notifications and the authorized body for informatization.
Footnote.

Section 33. Original section/article: 12. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 34. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 35. Original section/article: 13. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of licensing bodies
Competence of licensing bodies shall include:
1) establishment of conformance of an applicant to qualification or permission requirements;
2) carrying out of licensing or licensing procedures;
3) carrying out of permission control;
4) introduction of the state electronic register of permissions and notifications, with the exception of information containing the state secrets and other secrets protected by the Law, permissions for acquisition of civil and service weapons and their ammunition, non-military pyrotechnical substances and items with their use, permissions to labour migrants;
5) carrying out of licensing procedures and licensing in electronic form by the state informational system of permissions and notifications according to the rules of its functioning;
6) direction of request to the state bodies on coordination of issuance of permission in a part of conformance of an applicant to requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) the exercise of other powers provided for by this Law, other laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations.
Footnote.

Section 36. Original section/article: 13. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
is as amended by Law № 262-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 37. Original section/article: 14. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of state bodies carrying out receipt of notifications
Competence of state bodies carrying out receipt of notifications shall include:
1) receipt of notifications;
2) maintenance of the state electronic register of permissions and notifications;
3) carrying out of notification order in electronic form by the state informational system of permissions and notifications according to the rules of its functioning;
4) inspection of compliance with requirements established by the regulatory legal acts by an applicant;
5) the exercise of other powers provided for by this Law, other laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations.
Footnote.

Section 38. Original section/article: 14. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 39. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 40. Original section/article: 15. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Competence of the authorized body in the scope of informatization
Competence of the authorized body in the scope of informatization shall include:
1) development and approval of joint order with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications on approval of the list of permissions subjected and not subjected to automation;
2) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and approval of the rules of functioning of the state informational system of permissions and notifications;
2-1) development, coordination with the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications and approval of the rules of maintenance of the state electronic register of permissions and notifications;
2-2) development and approval of the list of permits according to which the applicant shall be checked for compliance with qualification or permitting requirements and the issuance of a permit or a reasoned refusal shall be carried out in the automatic mode of checking the applicant and issuing a permit in the state information system of permits and notices;
3) exercise of other powers provided by this Law, other Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 41. Original section/article: 15. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 42. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 3. PERMISSION AND NOTIFICATION ORDERS OF CARRYING
OUT THE ACTIVITY OR ACTIONS (OPERATIONS)

Section 43. Original section/article: 16. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Levels of danger of regulated activity or actions (operations)
1. Permission or notification order shall be introduced depending on level of danger of the activity or actions (operations) subjected to carrying out and shall be divided into the following levels:
1) permissions of the first category – licenses that shall be introduced in respect of the types (subtypes) of activity or actions (operations) linked with a high level of danger;
2) permissions of the second category – all the permissions that are not the licenses that shall be introduced in respect of the types (subtypes) of activity or actions (operations) linked with a medium level of danger;
3) notifications shall be introduced in respect of the types of activity or actions linked with a low level of danger, but requiring receipt of information by the state bodies on beginning or termination of such types of activity or actions.
2. Levels of danger of activity or actions (operations) shall be established on the basis of regulatory impact assessment.

Section 44. Original section/article: 17. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
General provisions on permission and notification orders
1. For beginning and the following carrying out of separate types of activity or actions (operations), the individuals and legal entities shall be obliged to have a valid permission or direct a notification to the state bodies carrying out receipt of notifications in the manner established by this Law.
2. Carrying out of activity or actions (operations) by individuals and legal entities, for which the permission or notification order is established, shall not be allowed without receipt of the relevant permission or without direction of the relevant notification.
Permission shall be received by individuals or legal entities and be valid, and the notification shall be directed by an individual or legal entity before beginning of carrying out the activity or action (operation) in respect of which the permission or notification order is established by this Law.
3. Individuals and legal entities that carried out the activity or actions (operations) before introduction of permission or notification order in respect of them in accordance with this Law without permission or notification shall be obliged to receive the relevant permission or direct the relevant notification for a continuation of carrying out the activity or action (operation) in respect of which the permission or notification order is introduced by this Law.
4. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply to the cases provided by a part one of paragraph 5 of

Section 45. Original section/article: 28. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
5. Establishment of permission or notification order by this Law shall be performed depending on a level of danger of the activity or action (operation) for the purpose of protection of life and health of people, environment, property, ensuring of the national security and legal order.
6. Annexes 1, 2 and 3 to this Law shall provide comprehensive lists of permissions and notifications.
7. The issuance, extension, renewal, and implementation of other actions provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to permits, as well as Annexes to them, shall be public services and, to the extent not contrary to this Law, shall be regulated by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State and Socially Responsible Services".
Footnote.

Section 46. Original section/article: 17. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.01.2026 № 254-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 47. Original section/article: 18. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Procedure for introduction and cancellation of permission or notification order
1. Permission or notification order shall be introduced only by inclusion of the relevant permission or notification into the lists of permissions or notifications provided in Annexes 1, 2 and 3 to this Law.
2. In order to introduce a permitting or notification procedure, regulatory state bodies must first conduct a regulatory impact analysis procedure in accordance with the Entrepreneurial code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.Force of this paragraph shall not apply to the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Upon introduction of permission order in respect of the activity or action (operation) previously not subjected to permission order, the obligatoriness of obtaining permission shall occur at the individual or legal entity carrying out the activity or action (operation) from the date of entering of the regulatory legal act into force regulating the procedure for obtaining permission and (or) establishing the requirements being compulsory for obtaining the permission.
4. Normative legal acts regulating the procedure for obtaining a permit, approving permission or eligibility requirements and (or) a list of documents confirming the applicants' compliance with such requirements, may not be put into effect before expiration of sixty calendar days after the date of their first official publication.
In case of introduction of permission order in respect of the activity or actions (operations) previously not subjected to permission order, the applicants shall have the right to file an application for obtaining permission before entering of the regulatory legal acts into force regulating the procedure for obtaining the permission approving permission or qualification requirements and (or) the list of documents confirming the conformance of applicants to such requirements, but no less than five business days before entering of such acts into force.
By this, the issuance of permissions or substantiated refusals in their issuance upon applications filed in accordance with a part two of this paragraph shall be carried out by licensing bodies after entering of the regulatory legal acts into force mentioned in a part one of this paragraph within the terms established for their issuance.
5. Applicants that filed an application for obtaining permission in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article shall have the right to carry out the activity or action (operation) in respect of which the permission order is introduced without existence of permission before issuance of permission or substantiated refusal in its issuance.
Force of this paragraph shall not apply to permissions issued for activity in a financial scope and the activity linked with a concentration of financial resources.
6. Permitting or notification procedure shall be subject to cancellation in case of failure to achieve the objectives of state regulation.
Cancellation of the permitting or notification procedure shall be carried out by excluding the permission or notification from the list of permissions and notifications provided for in Annexes 1, 2 and 3 to this Law, and shall entail the right of an individual or a legal entity to carry out activities or actions (operations) without permission or sending a notification.
Footnote.

Section 48. Original section/article: 18. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.03.2021 № 15-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 49. Original section/article: 19. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Regulatory impact assessment
Footnote.

Section 50. Original section/article: 19. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 51. Original section/article: 20. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Rights of applications
1. Applications shall have the right to:
1) receive full and credible information on permissions and notifications;
2) appeal decisions, actions (omission) of licensing bodies and state bodies carrying out receipt of notifications, and (or) their civil servants, State Corporation and (or) their employees on the issues of carrying out the licensing and licensing procedures or receipt of notifications in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) choose electronic or hard copy form of an application for obtaining permission and (or) annex to it or for direction of notification considering the provisions of

Section 52. Original section/article: 48. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, with the exception of issuance of permissions by a competition;
4) choose electronic or hard copy of issued permission and (or) annex to it considering the provisions of

Section 53. Original section/article: 48. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
2. Foreign persons, stateless persons and foreign legal persons shall receive permissions and direct notifications equally with citizens and legal entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international treaties.
Footnote.

Section 54. Original section/article: 20. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016).

Section 55. Original section/article: 21. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Rights and obligations of licensing bodies
1. Licensing bodies shall have the right to refer with request to the state bodies within the competence for information required for carrying out a licensing or licensing procedure, as well as by informational systems.
2. Licensing bodies shall be obliged to:
1) carry out licensing and licensing procedures in accordance with this Law;
2) create necessary conditions for disabled persons upon obtainment of permissions by them;
3) represent full and credible information in available form on licensing, licensing procedures, list of documents required for this and procedure for receipt and drawing up of such documents;
4) represent documents and (or) information to the state bodies and State Corporation required for carrying out of licensing and licensing procedures, as well as by informational systems;
5) take measures oriented to restoration of violated rights, freedoms and legal interests of applicants, licensees and owners of permissions of the second category;
6) ensure uninterrupted functioning and filling of informational systems within the competence containing necessary details for issuance of permissions;
7) receive written consent of applicants, licensees and owners of permissions of the second category, as well as in the form, of electronic document for use of personal data of restricted access representing a secret protected by the Law containing in informational systems upon issuance of permissions, unless otherwise provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) represent information upon request of the authorized body on investments required for carrying out licensing and licensing procedures in respect of investors realizing investment priority projects in accordance with Code of Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 56. Original section/article: 21. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016). 
Chapter 4. PERMISSIONS

Section 57. Original section/article: 22. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Force of permissions
1. Issuance of permissions shall be carried out on equal grounds and equal conditions for all the persons answering to qualification or permission requirements.
2. Annexes 1 and 2 to this Law as a note shall include details:
1) on alienation of a license;
2) on the applicability of tender procedures or collegial consideration when issuing a permit;
3) on validity term of permission;
4) on non-application of force of a part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 58. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1 and 2 of

Section 59. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law upon issuance of permission;
5) other necessary details.
3. Force of permissions shall apply to all the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of cases provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 60. Original section/article: 22. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
is as amended by Law № 156-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 24.05.2018 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 61. Original section/article: 23. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Classes of permissions
Depending on objects of regulation, the permissions shall be divided into the following classes:
1) class 1 – permissions issued for activity;
2) class 2 – permissions issued for objects;
3) class 3 – one-time permissions;
4) class 4 – permissions issued for activity with restricted resources or with the use of quotas;
5) classes 5 – permissions issued for professional activity to individuals;
6) class 6 – permissions issued for products.

Section 62. Original section/article: 24. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Forms of permissions and (or) annexes to them
The forms of permits and (or) annexes thereto are approved by regulatory state bodies in agreement with the authorized body for permits and notifications and the authorized body for informatization, as well as the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations within their competence with regard to activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources.
Annex to permission is an integral part of permission.
Annex to a license shall be drawn up for specifying the subtypes of a licensable type of activity or actions (operations) or objects on which the license is issued or is subject to issuance, as well as specification of factual address of carrying out of the activity or actions (operations).
Footnote.

Section 63. Original section/article: 24. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 64. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020).

Section 65. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Common procedure for consideration of applications for obtainment of permissions
1. Within two business days from the date of receipt of documents of an applicant for issuance of permission and (or) annex to it, licensing body upon licensing or upon carrying out licensing procedures shall be obliged to check completeness of represented documents.
In case of representing incomplete package of documents by the applicant, the licensing body shall give a substantiated refusal in the following consideration of the application within specified terms.
2. For receipt of coordinations (concurrent permissions) of the state bodies for the purpose of conforming the applicant to requirements established by the regulatory legal acts, in cases established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan or regulations of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the licensing body shall direct a request to the relevant state bodies at the place of carrying out of the forthcoming activity or action (operation) by the applicant within two business days from the date of registration of documents of the applicant for obtaining permission and (or) annex to it.
State bodies on the basis of a request of the licensing body shall direct a respond within ten business days to the relevant licensing body on conformance or non-conformance of an applicant to requirements submitted upon licensing or upon carrying out of licensing procedures.
For permissions of the second category, the regulatory legal acts may establish the other terms for the cases provided by paragraph 1 of this Article, parts one and two of this paragraph.
3. In case of non-representation of respond within established terms by the state bodies, the issuance of permission shall be considered as coordinated.
Provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to permissions on which there is the relevant note in Annexes 1 and 2 to this Law.
4. All the documents represented to the relevant licensing body or to the State Corporation for issuance of permission and (or) annex to it shall be accepted by inventory, the copy of which shall be directed (handed) to an applicant with a note on a date of acceptance of the documents by the mentioned body. By this, the inventory shall be drawn up by the applicant.
If an application is submitted in electronic form, a document is issued confirming the acceptance of the corresponding application, certified by electronic digital signature of the authorized person of the permitting authority.
Footnote.

Section 66. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 67. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 68. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Consequences of delay of issuance of permission
1. In case if the licensing body did not issue permission and (or) annex to permission or did not represent a substantiated refusal in their issuance to an applicant within the terms determined in accordance with this Law, the permission and (or) annex to permission shall be considered as issued from the date of expiration of terms of their issuance and at the same time shall be included by the licensing body into the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
2. No later than five business days from the date of expiration of term of issuing permission and (or) annex to permission, the licensing body shall be obliged to issue the relevant permission and (or) the annex to permission.
In case of non-issuance of permission and (or) annex to permission by the licensing body, the permission and (or) annex to permission shall be considered as received upon expiry of five business days. In this case, the confirmation of legality of carrying out the activity or action (operation) for which this Law establishes a permission order before obtainment of permission is the document confirming the acceptance of the relevant application for obtaining the permission by the licensing body or State Corporation issued on a date of receipt of the application.
If an application is submitted in electronic form, the confirmation of acceptance of the application is a document certified by means of an electronic digital signature of an authorized person of the permitting authority.
3. Provisions of this Article shall not apply to permissions on which in Annexes 1 and 2 to this Law there is relevant notice.
Footnote.

Section 69. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 70. Original section/article: 27. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Special aspects of representing documents for issuance of permission and (or) annex to it by foreign legal entities
Foreign legal entities shall make payment of duties or payments recovered upon carrying out of licensing or licensing procedures on an independent basis upon condition of receipt of own business identification number or by branches and (or) representatives of these legal entities registered in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in existence of powers of heads of branches and (or) representatives and with the use of requisites and business identification numbers of such branches and (or) representatives.
Chapter 5. LICENSING

Section 71. Original section/article: 28. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Scopes of licensing 
1. Separate types of activity or actions (operations) in the following scopes shall be subject to licensing:
1) television and radio broadcasting;
2) protection and use of objects of historical and cultural heritage;
3) education;
4) architecture, urban construction and building;
5) hydrocarbons;
6) industry;
7) informatization and communications;
8) turnover of narcotic substances, psychotropic substances, precursors;
9) health care service;
10) use of atomic energy;
11) ensuring of information security;
12) special technical means intended for conduct of operational investigative measures;
13) turnover of armament, military technology and separate types of weapons, explosive substances and items with their use;
14) turnover of poisonous substances;
15) production of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
16) production and turnover of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products, production of tobacco products;
17) goods exchanges;
18) export and import;
19) financial field and activity liked with a concentration of financial resources;
20) use of cosmic space;
21) gambling business;
22) veterinary;
23) rural economy
24) transport;
25) judicial expert activity, including act of forensic medical examination, forensic and narcological and forensic psychiatric examinations;
26) serving of individuals and legal entities;
27) digital assets.
2. Carrying out of activity by the following subjects shall be allowed without existence of a license:
1) state bodies and state servants within the powers;
2) autonomous educational organizations and their organizations, as well as foreign legal entities introducing and (or) realizing educational programs in mentioned organizations for carrying out of the activity in the scope of education;
3) Development Bank of Kazakhstan within the powers established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources carried out within the powers established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan: 
the central securities depository;
the single operator in state property accounting;
a credit bureau partially owned by the government;
mutual insurance societies;
the operator of the “e-government” payment gateway;
the Unified Accumulative Pension Fund;
the National Postal Operator;
5) an authorized organization of a state body in the field of state defense procurement, within the powers established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Defense Industry and State Defense Procurement";
6) Export Credit Agency of Kazakhstan within the powers established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) healthcare entities determined by local government health authorities of regions, cities of republican significance and the capital in agreement with the territorial divisions of the state body in the field of sanitary and epidemiological welfare of the population, during an emergency and (or) pandemic declared by the World Health Organization, to provide medical care, including diagnostic and laboratory services for patients with infectious diseases, for which restrictive measures (quarantine) are introduced, in accordance with the list determined by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 72. Original section/article: 28. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.02.2017 № 45-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of tencalendardays after its first official publication); dated 13.06.2017 № 69-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication) dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 18.03.2019 № 237-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art. 2); № 289-VІ as of 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.06.2020 № 347-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated 23.01.2024 № 54-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 211-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 73. Original section/article: 29. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Conditions for issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license
1. Licenses shall be issued at the place of a licenser.
2. If licensers are the local executive bodies or territorial bodies of the central state body, the license and (or) annex to it shall be issued:
1) at the place of registration of an individual or legal entity or a branch or representative office of a foreign legal entity, the location of an individual entrepreneur or a person engaged in private practice, with the exception of licenses issued under the class "permissions issued for objects", which are issued at the place of their activities;
2) to foreign legal entity that does not have a branch or representative in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at the place of carrying out of activity by it, with the exception of cases when otherwise is established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. For obtainment of a license and (or) annex to a license, the applicant shall represent the following documents:
1) application;
2) for legal entities carrying out the activity in a financial scope and the activity linked with a concentration of financial resources, as well as the activity linked with a turnover of non-military and service weapons and ammunition to them, the activity linked with a turnover of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors, the activity linked with carrying out of protection activity – copy of articles of association (notarized in a case of non-representation of originals for matching);
3) certificate on state registration (reregistration) of a legal entity of an applicant – for a legal entity;
4) copy of a document certifying identity – for an individual;
5) Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); 
6) copy of a document confirming the payment of a license fee for the right to engage in separate types of activity, with the exception of cases of payment through the payment gateway of “electronic government”;
7) documents confirming the conformance of an applicant to qualification requirements in cases and in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Representation of documents provided by subparagraphs 2), 3), 4) and 5) of paragraph 3 of this Article shall not be required in case of existence of a possibility of a licenser to receive information containing in these documents from the relevant state informational systems.
An applicant who is a foreign legal entity, a branch of a foreign legal entity whose activity profile is financial services, a foreign national or a stateless person, if he does not have the documents referred to in subparagraphs 2), 3), 4) and 5) of paragraph 3 of this article, shall submit other documents containing analogous details on the applicant.
Additional requirements for the list of documents, when issuing a license for the right to engage in activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, may also be set by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations in accordance with the laws of the Republic Kazakhstan.
5. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 226-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023). 
6. For obtaining an annex to a valid license within the type of activity or action (operation) for which there is a license, the following documents shall be required:
1) application;
2) documents confirming the conformance of an applicant to qualification requirements;
3) other documents the representation of which is provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
7. Licenses shall be issued without limitation of a validity term, unless otherwise provided by annex 1 to this Law.
8. Licenses are unalienable, with the exception of licenses issued on a class of “permissions issued for objects” that may be alienable in cases, if the alienability is provided by annex 1 to this Law.
Footnote.

Section 74. Original section/article: 29. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 30.12.2021 № 95-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (for the procedure of entry into force, see

Section 75. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 20.04.2023 № 226-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 76. Original section/article: 30. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Terms of considering applications on issuance of a license and (or) annexes to a license
1. License and (or) Annex to a license or substantiated refusal in their issuance shall be issued by the licensor not later than fifteen working days, except for the licenses and (or) annexes to the licenses in the sphere of atomic energy use, financial sphere and activity related to concentration of financial resources, education sphere, sphere of hydrocarbons.
2. License and (or) Annex to a license or substantiated refusal to issue them in the sphere of atomic energy use, financial sphere and activity related to concentration of financial resources, education sphere, sphere of hydrocarbons shall be issued by the licensor not later than thirty working days from the date of submission of the application with the documents, established in accordance with the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Licenses and (or) Annexes to the license in the field of import and export of specific goods, or a reasoned refusal to issue them, shall be issued by the licensor within the time frame provided for by the second part of

Section 77. Original section/article: 37. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
Footnote.

Section 78. Original section/article: 30. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 79. Original section/article: 31. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
License fee for the right to engage in separate types of activity
License fee for the right to engage in separate types of activity (hereinafter – license fee) shall be recovered upon issuance (re-issuance) of a license (a duplicate of a license) in accordance with the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget” (Tax Code), as well as in other cases provided by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget” (Tax Code).
Rates of a licensee fee shall be established by the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On taxes and other compulsory payments to the budget” (Tax Code).
When issuing appendices to a license, with the exception of subtypes of activities in hydrocarbons, duplicate appendices to the license, no license fee shall be charged.
In hydrocarbons, the license fee shall be charged for the right to engage in certain sub-types of activity.
Upon issuance of licenses and (or) annexes to a license in cases provided by

Section 80. Original section/article: 44. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, the license fee shall not be recovered.
Footnote.

Section 81. Original section/article: 31. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.01.2021 № 407-VI (effective from 01.01.2022).

Section 82. Original section/article: 32. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Refusal in issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license
1. Refusal in issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license shall be carried out if:
1) engagement in the activity type is prohibited by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan for this category of individuals or legal entities, a branch of a foreign legal entity whose activity profile is financial services;
2) the license fee is not contributed;
3) applicant does not conform to qualification requirements;
4) licenser received a respond from the relevant coordinating state body on non-conformance of an applicant to requirements submitted upon licensing;
5) in respect of an applicant there is enforced court decision (verdict) on suspension or prohibition of activity or separate types of activity subjected to a licensing;
6) the court prohibited the issuance of a license on the basis of a representation of the officer of justice to an applicant-debtor on a temporary basis;
7) unreliability of the documents, submitted by the applicant for obtaining a license and (or) the data (information) contained therein is established.
Additional grounds for refusing to issue licenses and (or) annexes to licenses for carrying out the activity in the financial sector and activity related to the concentration of financial resources are introduced by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations in accordance with laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Additional grounds for refusing to issue licenses for the export and import of specific goods shall be established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On control of specific goods".
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.04.2023 № 226-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023). 
3. Substantiated refusal in a hard copy or in the form of electronic document in issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license shall be given by a licenser to an applicant within the terms established for issuance of the license and (or) annex to the license.
Footnote.

Section 83. Original section/article: 32. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 20.04.2023 № 226-VII (shall be enforced from 01.07.2023).

Section 84. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license
1. License and (or) annex to a license shall be subject to re-issuance in the following cases:
1) change of last name, first name, patronymic (when available) of an individual-licensee;
2) reregistration of an individual entrepreneur-licensee, change of its name or legal address;
3) reorganization of a legal entity-licensee in accordance with the manner determined by

Section 85. Original section/article: 34. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law;
4) change of the name and (or) location of the legal entity-licensee, branch of the foreign legal entity-licensee, whose profile is financial services provision (if the address is indicated in the license);
5) alienation of a license by a licensee issued on a class “permissions issued for objects” with the object in favor of third parties in cases if the alienation of a particular license is provided by annex 1 to this Law;
6) change of address of location of an object without its physical movement for a license issued on a class “permissions issued for objects” or for annexes to a license with specification of objects;
7) existence of requirement on re-issuance in the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Subparagraphs 2), 4) and 6) of part one of this paragraph do not apply to the cases of changes in the legal address of an individual entrepreneur-licensee, the address of location of a legal entity-licensee, the address of location of an object of a license issued under the “permits for objects” class or for annexes thereto indicating objects, which occurred in connection with a change in the name of populated localities, street names in accordance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan”. Such changes in the address of licensees and the object of the license are carried out through the integration of state information systems.
2. In case of change of a name of the type and (or) subtype of activity for which the permission order is introduced, the licensee shall have the right to file an application on re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license.
Licensee having a license for a type of activity, whereby the name is changed, shall have the right to receive the annex to a license in case of preliminary re-issuance of a license.
3. For re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license, the applicant shall represent the following documents:
1) an application in accordance with the form approved by the authorized body for permits and notifications, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations;
2) for cases of re-issuance of a license – the document confirming payment of a license fee, with the exception of payment through the payment gateway of “electronic government”;
3) copies of documents containing information on changes serving as a ground for re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license, with the exception of documents the information from which is contained in the state informational systems;
3-1) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) other documents the representation of which is provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Application on re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license in cases provided by paragraph 1 of this Article shall be filed by an applicant within thirty calendar days from the date of occurrence of changes that served as a ground for re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license.
In case of re-issuance of a license on the ground provided by subparagraph 7) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the term for filing application by an applicant on re-issuance of the license shall be established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Upon re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license, the licenser shall not check conformance of an applicant to qualification requirements, unless otherwise established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of re-issuance on the grounds provided by subparagraphs 4 and 5 of

Section 86. Original section/article: 34. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
5. Licenser shall refuse in re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license initiated on the grounds provided by subparagraphs 1), 2), 4), 5), 6) and 7) of paragraph 1 of this Article in case of non-presentation or improper drawing up of documents mentioned in paragraph 3 of this Article.
If the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan provide a necessity of checking conformance of an applicant to qualification requirements upon re-issuance of a license, the non-conformance to these requirements shall also be the ground for refusal in re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license.
6. If one or more banking and other transactions are excluded from the licensed type of activity, the applicant shall, within thirty calendar days after the date of enactment of the relevant regulatory legal act, submit an application for license renewal with the license attached. In case of a change in the name of the type and/or subspecies of activities in the financial sphere and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, except for activities in the insurance market, if such a change did not entail a change in the substance of the licensed type and (or) subspecies of activity, the applicant shall, within thirty calendar days after the date of enactment of the relevant regulatory legal act, submit an application for renewal of the license with the attachment of documents confirming payment of the license fee.
In case of non-presentation or improper drawing up of documents mentioned in part one of this paragraph, licenser refuses to re-issue a license.
7. Re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to licenses shall be drawn up in electronic form in compliance with provisions of

Section 87. Original section/article: 48. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
8. Unless otherwise provided by

Section 88. Original section/article: 34. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, the renewal of the license and (or) the appendices to the license shall be made by the licensor within three working days from the date of submission of the documents provided for in paragraph 3 of this Article, except for the case specified in subparagraph 7) of the first parts of the first paragraph 1 of this Article, licenses and (or) Annexes to licenses for engaging in educational activities shall be reissued within the period provided for by paragraph 3-1 of

Section 89. Original section/article: 57. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On education".
Footnote.

Section 90. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 91. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty one calendar days after its first official publication; dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 272-VI as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 03.05.2022 № 118-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 92. Original section/article: 34. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Validity of a license and (or) annex to a license in case of reorganization of a legal entity-licensee
1. Upon reorganization of a legal entity-licensee in the form of merge, its available license and (or) annex to a license shall be subject to re-issuance for a newly created legal entity in the result of merge in the manner determined by paragraphs 3 and 4 of

Section 93. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law. Upon merge of several legal entities-licensees having the licenses for one and the same licensable type of activity of subtype of a licensable type of activity, only one such license and (or) annex to a license at the choice of the applicant shall be subject to re-issuance for a newly created legal entity in the result of merge. In the event of a merger of legal entities-licensees, the license of reorganized legal entities-licensees is terminated from the date of renewal of the license of the newly emerged legal entity-licensee.
2. Upon reorganization of a legal entity-licensee in the form of transformation, all its available license and (or) annex to a license shall be subject to re-issuance for a newly created legal entity in the result of transformation in the manner determined by paragraphs 3 and 4 of

Section 94. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, with the exception of cases when for legal organizational form of newly created legal entity in the result of transformation, the engagement in a licensable type of activity or subtype of a licensable type of activity is prohibited by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Upon reorganization in the form of accession of a legal entity-licensee to another legal entity, the license and (or) annex to a license of accessed legal entity-licensee shall be re-issued on the latter in the manner determined by paragraphs 3 and 4 of

Section 95. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law. If there are licenses for one and the same licensable type of activity or subtype of a licensable type of activity at accessing legal entity and a legal entity to which the accessing legal entity is accessed, the re-issuance of the license of the accessing legal entity on the legal entity to which the legal entity is accessed shall not be carried out.
4. Upon reorganization of a legal entity-licensee in the form of separation, its available license and (or) annex to a license in existence of consent of the legal entity from which the separation is carried out, shall be subject to re-issuance for one separated legal entity in the result of reorganization only in case of confirmation of conformity of the separated legal entity to qualification requirements submitted upon licensing of the relevant type of licensable activity and (or) subtype of licensable type of activity.
Applicant for re-issuance of a license on the ground provided by this paragraph is a separated legal entity in the result of reorganization.
For re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license for a separated legal entity in the result of reorganization, the applicant shall represent details and documents on own conformance to qualification requirements, as well as decision on agreement of the legal entity from which the separation for re-issuance of a license on separated legal entity is carried out, besides the documents provided by paragraph 3 of

Section 96. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
Application on re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license for a separated legal entity in the result of reorganization shall be filed by an applicant within thirty calendar days from the date of completion of reorganization in the form of separation.
Licenser shall refuse in re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license initiated on the ground provided by this paragraph in case of non-representation or improper drawing up of documents mentioned in paragraph 3 of

Section 97. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, part three of this paragraph, as well as in case of non-conformance of the applicant to qualification requirements.
5. Upon reorganization of a legal entity-licensee in the form of division, its available licenses and (or) annex to a license shall be subject to re-issuance for one of newly created legal entity in the result of division in case of confirmation of conformance of this newly created legal entity in the result of reorganization to qualification requirements.
Applicant for re-issuance of a license on the ground provided by this paragraph is one of the newly created legal entities in the result of division.
For re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license for one of the newly created legal entities in the result of division, the applicant shall represent details and documents on own conformance to qualification requirements, besides the documents provided by paragraph 3 of

Section 98. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
Application on re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license for one of the newly created legal entities in the result of division shall be filed by an applicant within thirty calendar days from the date of completion of reorganization in the form of division.
Licenser shall refuse in re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license initiated on the ground provided by this paragraph in case of:
1) non-presentation or improper drawing up of documents mentioned in paragraph 3 of

Section 99. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law and in a part of three of these paragraphs;
2) non-conformance of an applicant to qualification requirements;
3) if the license and (or) annex to a license were re-issued previously for another legal entity from among the newly created legal entities-licensees in the result of division.
5-1. Upon voluntary reorganization of the bank in the form of conversion to Islamic bank:
validity of a license to conduct banking and other transactions is terminated from the moment it is granted a license to conduct banking and other operations of an Islamic bank;
the license on carrying out activity in the market of securities shall be re-issued by the licensor to the Islamic Bank in the manner specified in paragraph 3 and 4 of

Section 100. Original section/article: 33. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law, not later than thirty business days from the date of submission of the application with the relevant documents.
5-2. In case of voluntary reorganization of a microfinance organization in the form of conversion into a bank, the license for microfinance activities shall terminate from the moment of state re-registration of the microfinance organization into a bank.
6. Within two business days from the date of receipt of documents of an applicant for re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license on the grounds provided by paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article, the licenser shall be obliged to check completeness of represented documents.
In case of establishment of a fact of incompleteness of represented documents, the licenser shall give substantiated refusal in the following consideration of an application within established terms.
7. For receipt of coordinations (concurrent permissions) of the state bodies for the purpose of conforming the applicant to requirements established by the regulatory legal acts, in cases established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, decrees of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan or regulations of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the licenser shall direct a request to the relevant state bodies at the place of carrying out of the activity by the applicant within two business days from the date of registration of documents of the applicant for re-issuance of a license and (or) annex to a license on the grounds provided by paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
State bodies on the basis of request of a licenser shall direct a respond to the relevant licenser within ten business days on conformance or non-conformance of an applicant to submitted requirements.
Regulatory legal acts may establish the other terms for the cases provided by a part one of paragraph 6 of this Article, parts one and two of this paragraph.
8. All the documents submitted to the relevant licenser or to the State Corporation for re-issuance of license and (or) annex to a license shall be accepted by inventory, the copy of which shall be directed (handed) to the applicant with a note on a date of acceptance of documents by the mentioned body. By this, the inventory shall be drawn up by the applicant.
If an application is submitted in electronic form, the confirmation of acceptance of the application is a document certified by means of an electronic digital signature of an authorized person of the permitting authority.
9. The license and/or the Annex to the license for the reasons provided for in paragraph 4 and 5 of this Article shall be re-issued by the licensor no later than fifteen working days, except for the licenses and (or) Annexes to licenses in the field of atomic energy use, financial sphere and activities, related to the concentration of financial resources, the import and export of specific goods, the sphere of education, the sphere of hydrocarbons, which in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article shall be re-issued no later than thirty working days from the date of submission of the application with documents, established by the third part of paragraph 4 and the third part of paragraph 5 of this Article.
10. Licensers shall be obliged to issue re-issued license and (or) annex to a license or give a substantiated refusal in their re-issuance within the terms established by this Article.
Footnote.

Section 101. Original section/article: 34. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 102. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016) ; dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 272-VI as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 103. Original section/article: 35. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Termination of validity of a license and (or) annexes to a license
1. License and (or) annex to a license shall terminate their validity in cases of:
1) expiration of term on which they are issued;
2) commission of actions (operations) in a full measure for carrying out of which they are issued;
3) deprivation (revocation) of a license and (or) annex to a license;
4) termination of activities of an individual, liquidation of a legal entity, termination of activities of a branch of a foreign legal entity whose profile is financial services;
5) voluntary reference of a licensee to a licenser on termination of validity of a license and (or) annex to a license;
6) exclusion of a license or separate type of activity and (or) subtype of activity or action (operation) from annex 1 to this Law;
7) exclusion of a licensee from among the persons subjected to licensing;
8) in other cases, provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Upon termination of validity of a license and (or) annex to a license, the licensee shall be obliged to return the license and (or) annex to the license to a licenser within ten business days, with the exception of cases of termination of validity of the license and (or) annex to the license on the grounds provided by subparagraphs 6) and 7) of paragraph 1 of this Article, or drawing up of a license only in electronic form.
3. From the date of termination of validity of a license and (or) annex to a license, with the exception of cases provided by subparagraphs 6) and 7) of paragraph 1 of this Article, licensees shall not have the right to carry out types (subtypes) of activity or actions (operations) for carrying out which the license and (or) annex to the license that terminated validity are issued.
4. From the moment of termination of the license and (or) Annex to the license in accordance with subparagraph 5) of paragraph 1 of this Article, all obligations to pay the annual license fee provided for by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including payment of the license fee for the year in which the license activity is terminated, shall cease.
Footnote.

Section 104. Original section/article: 35. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020).

Section 105. Original section/article: 36. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Special conditions of licensing of separate types of activity
1. The procedure, terms and conditions for the issuance, re-issuance, refusal to issue, suspension, termination of licenses and (or) annexes to licenses for the right to engage in activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, are established by the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the authorized the body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
2. Conditions and procedure for issuance of licenses for the right to engage in activity in the scope of gambling industry shall be determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On gambling industry”.
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication). 
4. Special conditions for issuing a license for the right to engage in activities in the field of architecture, town planning and construction shall be determined by the "Construction Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
In the Annex to the license, the category of the licensee in accordance with the "Construction Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan" shall be indicated as special conditions for issuing the license.
5. Special conditions of issuance of a license (or) annexes to license for the right to engage in activity of using atomic energy shall be determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On use of atomic energy”.
The type of devices, installations, materials, substances, wastes with which the licensee conduct works shall be specified in annex to a license as special conditions of issuance of a license.
6. Special conditions for issuing a license (or) annex to a license for the right to engage in activities related to unscheduled transportation of passengers by buses, minibuses, as well as regular international transportation of passengers by buses, minibuses are determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Automobile Transport”. 
In the annex to the license, it is necessary to indicate the brand, year of production and state registration number of a vehicle, used by the licensee for the transportation of passengers and baggage, as special conditions for issuing a license.
7. Special conditions for issuing and re-issuing a license and (or) Annex to the license for the right to engage in activities in the field of education shall be determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On education."
In the Annex to the license, the validity period shall be indicated as special conditions for issuing the license.
8. Special conditions for issuing and reissuing a license and (or) an appendix to a license for digital mining activities are determined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On digital assets in the Republic of Kazakhstan".
Footnote.

Section 106. Original section/article: 36. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.01.2016 № 443-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 249-VI as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced three months after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 03.05.2022 № 118-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated. 09.01.2026 № 254-VIII (shall enter into force dated 01.07.2026).

Section 107. Original section/article: 37. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
General provisions on permits for export and import 
1. Permits are used for the export and (or) import of certain types of goods, if this is provided for by international treaties, acts of the Eurasian Economic Union or if the following are introduced in respect of goods:
1) quantitative restrictions;
2) exclusive right;
3) automatic licensing (surveillance);
4) permissive procedure;
5) tariff quota;
6) import quota as a special protective measure;
7) special quota.
The list of goods, the export and (or) import of which are carried out on permits in accordance with international treaties and permits issued by state bodies, is established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of the Single List of goods subject to prohibitions or restrictions on import or export by members states of the Eurasian Economic Union in the trade with third countries, approved by the decision of the relevant body of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The procedure and conditions for issuing permits are established in accordance with international treaties, acts of the Eurasian Economic Union, resolutions of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and regulatory legal acts of central state bodies.
2. The checklist of specific goods shall be approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan based on the national security objectives of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the international obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, taking into account the checklists of international export control regimes.
Licenses and/or Annexes to the import and export license for specific goods shall be issued no later than thirty working days, except for the case when it is necessary to obtain confirmation of the authentication of the warranty obligation of the importing country, where the license is issued after receiving such confirmation.
3. The license shall be issued for specific goods classified in accordance with the Unified commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity, in respect of which licensing has been introduced.
4. State bodies issuing permits for the export and (or) import of goods to which the measures specified in subparagraphs 1) - 7) of part one of paragraph 1 of this article are applied, as well as the goods in respect of which they are applied, are determined in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On regulation of trading activities".
Issuance of permits for export and (or) import of goods shall not have a more restrictive or distorting effect on the export or import of goods than the purposes in pursuance of which these restrictions were established.
5. The licensor shall issue the following types of licenses:
1) a general license that grants the right to a participant in foreign trade activities to export and (or) import a certain type of licensable commodity in the quantity specified by the license;
2) an exclusive license that grants to a foreign trade participant the exclusive right to export and (or) import a particular type of commodity;
3) a single-use license issued to a foreign trade participant on the basis of a foreign trade transaction, the subject of which is a licensable commodity, and granting the right to export and (or) import this commodity in a certain quantity.
The licensor issues general and one-time licenses for the export and (or) import of goods in cases stipulated by the decision of the relevant body of the Eurasian Economic Union or the authorized body in the field of regulation of trade activities, or the central state body within its competence.
The licensor shall issue exclusive licenses for the export and (or) import of goods in cases provided by the resolution of the Eurasian Economic Union’ relevant body or the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
General and exclusive licenses shall not be issued for export and/or import of specific goods.
6. Licensees that received general and exclusive licenses shall quarterly report to the licensor on the progress of the relevant license execution by the fifteenth day of the month following the reporting quarter.
Licensees that received single-use licenses, within fifteen calendar days after the license expiration, shall report to the licensor on the license execution.
7. Validity term of a single-use license may not exceed one year from its commencement date. Validity term of a single-use license may be limited by the validity period of a foreign trade agreement (contract) or by the validity period of the document that is the ground for issuing the license.
For goods subjected to quantitative restrictions of exports and (or) imports or an import quota as a special protective measure, or a tariff quota, the license validity term shall end in the calendar year for which the quota is established.
The validity term of a general license for export and (or) import of goods may not exceed one year from its commencement date, and for goods on which quantitative export and (or) import restrictions or a tariff quota were established, it shall end in the calendar year for which the quota was established, unless otherwise stipulated by the decision of the relevant body of the Eurasian Economic Union or the authorized body in trading activities regulation, or the central state body within its competence in agreement with the authorized body in trading activities regulation.
The validity term, the order of suspension or termination of an exclusive license shall be established in each specific case by the decision of the relevant body of the Eurasian Economic Union or the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8. The procedure for suspension or termination of a license for export and import (except for an exclusive license) shall be established by the international treaty.
9. The issuance of a permit for the export and (or) import of goods is carried out by state bodies in the cases provided for by the decision of the relevant body of the Eurasian Economic Union, or when the measures specified in subparagraphs 3) and 4) of part one of paragraph 1 of this Article are introduced.
The validity term of the permit is limited to the calendar year in which the permit was issued.
Participants in foreign trade activities who received a permit for export and (or) import of goods, within fifteen calendar days after the validity term expiration, shall report to the licensing authority on the execution of the permit for the export and (or) import of goods.
Footnote.

Section 108. Original section/article: 37. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 397-VI (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 6. LICENSING PROCEDURES

Section 109. Original section/article: 38. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Special aspects of issuance of permission of the second category
1. Permission requirements and list of documents required for issuance of permissions of the second category shall be determined by the regulatory legal acts.
By this, the list shall not contain the documents information from which may be received from the state informational systems and (or) form of details represented by an applicant in cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Rules of carrying out licensing procedures and rules of carrying out activity or actions (operations) for which the licensing procedure is provided by this Law shall be approved by the regulatory legal acts.
Footnote.

Section 110. Original section/article: 38. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 111. Original section/article: 39. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Terms of consideration of applications on issuance of permission of the second category
Permission of the second category shall be issued within the term established by the regulatory legal acts. Body authorized to issue permissions of the second category shall be obliged to issue permission of the second category or give a substantiated refusal in its issuance within established term.
Footnote.

Section 112. Original section/article: 39. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 113. Original section/article: 40. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Duties and payments recovered upon carrying out licensing procedures
Amount of duties or payments recovered upon carrying out licensing procedures, procedure for their calculation and payment shall be established in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 114. Original section/article: 41. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Refusal in issuance of permission of the second category
1. Refusal in issuance of permission of the second category shall be carried out on the grounds provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Substantiated refusal to an applicant in issuance of permission of the second category shall be given by the body authorized for issuance of permission of the second category within the terms established for issuance of permission of the second category.
3. Substantiated refusal in issuance of permission of the second category shall be given in written form, as well as in the form of electronic document or in a hard copy.
Footnote.

Section 115. Original section/article: 41. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 116. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 06.04.2016 № 484-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 117. Original section/article: 42. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Termination of validity of permission of the second category
Permission of the second category shall terminate validity in cases and in the manner determined by the regulatory legal acts.
By this, deprivation (revocation) of permissions of the second category shall be carried out in accordance with paragraph 5 of

Section 118. Original section/article: 45. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
Footnote. Footnote.

Section 119. Original section/article: 42. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 120. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
). 
Chapter 7. ISSUANCE OF DUPLICATES, CORRECTION OF MISTAKES
AND SUSPENSION, RESTORATION OF ACTION AND DEPRIVATION 
(REVOCATION) OF PERMISSION AND (OR) ANNEX TO PERMISSION

Section 121. Original section/article: 43. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Issuance of duplicates of permission and (or) annex to permission, as well as conversion to electronic format 
1. Upon loss, damage of permission and (or) annex to permission issued in a hard copy, the licensee or owner of permission of the second category shall have the right to receive duplicates of permission and (or) annex to permission.
2. If permission and (or) annex to permission shall be issued in a hard copy, the licensee or owner of permission of the second category shall have the right to convert them in electronic format and receive electronic form of permission upon application.
Force of this paragraph shall not apply to permissions issued only in a hard copy.
3. Lost, damaged blanks of permission and (or) annex to permission shall be considered as invalid from the date of receipt of application by the licensing body on loss or damage.
4. Licensing body shall carry out issuance of duplicates of permission and (or) annex to permission with an inscription “duplicate” in the upper right corner and with specification of date of the primary issuance of the permission and (or) annex to the permission and date of their re-issuance within two business days from the date of filing an application.

Section 122. Original section/article: 44. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Correction of mistakes in issued permissions and (or) annexes to permissions 
In case of detecting mistakes in issued permission and (or) annex to permission, the licensee or owner of permission of the second category shall have the right to file an application in a free form on their correction.
Licensing body shall introduce necessary amendments into the state electronic register of permissions and notifications and issue the permission and (or) annex to the permission with the relevant corrections within two business days from the date of filing the relevant application by an applicant.

Section 123. Original section/article: 45. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Suspension, restoration of validity, deprivation (revocation) of permission and (or) annex to permission 
1. Suspension of validity of permission and (or) annex to permission shall be carried out in the manner and on the ground provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1-1. The ground for suspension of the permit and (or) the Annex to the permit may be a voluntary appeal to the permitting body of an individual or a legal entity, being a licensee or the owner of the permit of the second category.
2. Carrying out of separate types (subtypes) of activity or actions (operations) by licensees or owners of permissions of the second category for carrying out of which the permission and (or) annex to permission were issued, the validity of which is suspended shall not be allowed, unless otherwise provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Upon elimination of violations that are the ground for suspension of permission and (or) annex to permission, the licensee or owner of permission of the second category shall have the right to file an application to the licensing body on elimination of violations accompanied by the copies of confirming documents upon expiry of the validity term of suspension of permission and (or) annex to it, unless otherwise provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Licensing body shall verify elimination of violations within ten business days from the date of filing an application by an applicant on elimination of violations in the manner provided by paragraph 2 of

Section 124. Original section/article: 51. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
In case of confirming the fact of elimination of violations by an applicant, the licensing body shall adopt decision on restoration of validity of permission and (or) annex to permission within the term mentioned in a part two of this paragraph.
By this, validity of permission and (or) annex to permission shall be restored from the date of adoption of decision mentioned in a part three of this paragraph.
4. In case of non-representation of an application on elimination of violations being the ground for suspension of permission and (or) annex to permission by a licensee or owner of permission of the second category upon expiry of the term of suspension, the licensing bodies shall initiate a procedure for deprivation (revocation) of permission and (or) annex to permission within ten business days from the date of expiration of the term of suspension.
In the process of considering the question on deprivation (revocation) of permission and (or) annex to it, the licensee or owner of permission of the second category shall have the right to prove the fact of elimination of the violation. In this case, the licensing body shall be governed by parts two and three of paragraph 3 of this Article.
5. Deprivation (revocation) of permission shall be carried out in the manner and (or) on the grounds provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. From the moment of suspension of the permit and (or) the Annex to the permit in connection with voluntary application of the licensee, the owner of the permit of the second category, all obligations on the payment of annual license fee or payment provided for by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall cease.
7. Renewal of the permit validity and (or) the Annex to the permit suspended on the ground provided for in paragraph 1-1 of this Article shall be carried out upon application to the permitting body of the licensee or the owner of the permit of the second category.
The permitting body on the ground of this application within three working days shall take a decision on the renewal of the permit and (or) the Annex to the permit.
8. From the moment of taking the decision on renewal of the permit and (or) the Annex to the permit, obligations on payment of annual license fee or payment provided for by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be renewed for the licensee, the owner of the permit of the second category.
Footnote.

Section 125. Original section/article: 45. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 8. NOTIFICATION ORDER

Section 126. Original section/article: 46. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Notification order 
1. Limiting list of notifications shall be provided in Annex 3 to this Law.
2. Notices shall be sent by applicants to the state body that receives notices through the state information system of permits and notices, as well as at other informatization facilities in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. Applicants shall declare their conformance to requirements submitted by the regulatory legal acts for carrying out of activity or actions in respect of which the notification order is introduced by representing the forms of details in cases provided by the regulatory legal acts.
4. Applicant shall have the right to begin or be obliged to terminate carrying out of activity or particular actions immediately after direction of the relevant notification, unless otherwise established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Considering the specific character of separate types of activity or actions in separate cases, the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan may establish the terms for directing the notifications.
5. In cases established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the notification shall be accompanied by necessary documents, by this the requisitioning of documents and other information from applicants that in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be received from the state electronic informational resources.
Applicant shall bear responsibility for credibility of details contained in notification and (or) documents accompanied to the notification.
6. Upon introduction of notification order in respect of particular type of activity or action instead of permission order, the individuals and legal entities having valid permission for this type of activity or action on a date of introduction of notification order, shall be considered as directed the notification and automatically shall be included into the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
7. In case of change of legal address of an individual, location of a legal entity, address of carrying out the activity or actions specified in notification, as well as registration data the information on which is compulsory for filling in the notification, the applicant shall be obliged to direct the notification on mentioned changes in the manner established by this Law within ten business days from the date of change.
Footnote.

Section 127. Original section/article: 46. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 128. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 129. Original section/article: 47. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Confirmation of direction of notification 
Upon references of applicants, the state bodies carrying out acceptance of a notification shall be obliged to issue abbreviates to the applicants from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications on directed notifications by the applicants within three business days from the date of reference.
State bodies and third parties shall receive confirmation of direction of a notification by the applicant from the state bodies carrying out acceptance of notifications, or from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
Chapter 9. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES UPON
CARRYING OUT OF LICENSING, LICENSING PROCEDURES AND NOTIFICATIONS
Footnote. Chapter 9 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 130. Original section/article: 48. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Carrying out of licensing, licensing procedures and notifications in electronic form 
1. Licensing and direction of notifications shall be carried out in electronic form with the use of the state informational system of permissions and notifications and the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
Licensing procedures shall be carried out I electronic form with the use of state informational system of permissions and notifications and the state electronic register of permissions and notifications considering the provisions of paragraph 3 of

Section 131. Original section/article: 52. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law.
Permissions issued in the form of electronic document shall be equal to permissions in a hard copy.
Licensing bodies shall be obliged to include information on carried out licensing procedures in a hard copy into the state electronic register of permissions and notifications at the same time with carrying out of the licensing procedure.
The licensing body shall bear responsibility for non-performance of requirements established by a part four of this paragraph.
Force of this paragraph shall not apply to permissions that shall not be subject to automation.
2. For receipt of permission through the State Corporation, the applicant shall have the right to refer to the State Corporation regardless of its location, with the exception of permissions in a financial scope and for activity linked with a concentration of financial resources.
3. In case of reference of an applicant for passing the licensing procedure through the State Corporation, the employee of the State Corporation shall certify electronic application or another analogous document by own electronic digital signature issued for use in official purposes. Such certification shall be carried out on the basis of written agreement of the applicant.
4. In case of reference of an applicant for receipt of permission and (or) annex to permission in a hard copy, the permission and (or) annex to the permission shall be drawn up in electronic form, printed and notarized under seal of the licensing body and signature of the head of the licensing body.
5. Permission and (or) annex to permission shall be issued in a hard copy in case of absence of possibility to issue the permission and (or) annex to the permission in electronic form.
6. If an application is submitted in electronic form, registration of the application by the licensor and the body authorized to issue a permit of the second category shall be carried out within one working day.
7. It shall be allowed to check the applicant for compliance with qualification or permitting requirements and issue permission in the automatic mode of checking the applicant and issuing permission in the state information system of permits and notices.
In this case, the result of the relevant public service shall be certified by means of the electronic digital signature of the owner of the state information system of permits and notices. At the same time, the permitting authority shall be responsible for the result of the state service.
The list of permits for which the applicant shall be checked for compliance with qualification or permitting requirements and the issuance of a permit or reasoned refusal is carried out in the automatic mode of checking the applicant and issuing a permit in the state information system of permits and notices shall be determined by the authorized body in the field of informatization on the basis of the approved regulatory legal act of the permitting authority.
Footnote.

Section 132. Original section/article: 48. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 408-V (shall be enforced from 01.03.2016); dated 14.07.2022 № 141-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 133. Original section/article: 49. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
State electronic register of permissions and notifications
1. Licensing bodies shall maintain the state electronic register of permissions and notifications on a permanent basis.
State electronic register of permissions and notifications on notifications shall be maintained by the state bodies carrying out acceptance of notifications in cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. State bodies shall be obliged to receive information on permissions and notifications from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications for exercising own powers without additional requisitioning of confirmation of specified information from individuals and legal entities.
3. State electronic register of permissions and notifications is the ground for formation of risks assessment system and schedule of conducting inspections.
4. In case of suspension of activities or certain types of activities or actions (operations) of an individual or legal entity, a branch of a foreign legal entity whose profile is financial services provision, corresponding information shall be entered in the state electronic register of permits and notifications.
5. Exclusion of a notification from the state electronic register of permissions and notifications shall be carried out upon application of an applicant, under court decision on prohibition of activity or separate types of activity or actions of an individual or legal entity, as well as in other cases provided by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. Licensing bodies and state bodies carrying out acceptance of notifications in the period of temporary or permanent absence of a possibility to maintain the state electronic register of permissions and notifications shall be obliged to ensure fixing and preserving of all necessary historical data and perform filling of the state electronic register of permissions and notifications by historical data after occurrence of such possibility.
Footnote.

Section 134. Original section/article: 49. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020). 
Chapter 10. RESPONSIBILITY AND CONTROL

Section 135. Original section/article: 50. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Responsibility for breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permissions and notifications
Breach of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permissions and notifications shall entail responsibility established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 136. Original section/article: 51. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Control by notifications and permitting control 
1. Permit control, carried out for compliance with the qualification or permit requirements for issued permits, requirements for sent notifications, shall be carried out in the form of an inspection in accordance with the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations", unless otherwise provided for in paragraph 1-1 of this article.
If the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan provide for the procedure for conducting permit control carried out for compliance with qualification or permit requirements for issued permits, requirements for sent notifications through an automated information system, then such control is carried out in accordance with such laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1-1. Permit control carried out for compliance with qualification or permit requirements for issued permits in the field of industrial safety shall be carried out in the form of an inspection in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Civil Protection".
2. Permit control is carried out in the manner established by paragraphs 2-1 – 2-4 of this article.
In the field of activities in the financial sector and activities related to the concentration of financial resources, the permit control is carried out in the manner established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On state regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations”, as well as regulatory legal acts of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2-1. If the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the approval of qualification and permitting requirements contain the need to visit the applicant when carrying out permit control, based on the results of the visit, a conclusion is drawn up on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements.
The conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements shall indicate:
1) date, time and place of drawing up the conclusion;
2) name of the licensing authority;
3) last name, first name, patronymic (if it is indicated in the identity document) and position of the person (persons) who carried out the permit control;
4) name or surname, first name, patronymic (if indicated in the identity document) of the applicant, position of the representative of the individual or legal entity present during the permit control;
5) information about specialists, consultants and experts of government bodies and subordinate organizations involved in conducting the permit control;
6) information on the results of the permit control, including identified non-compliances with qualification or permitting requirements;
7) information about familiarization or refusal to familiarize with the conclusion of the applicant, the applicant’s representative, as well as persons present during the permit control, their signatures or refusal to sign;
8) signature of the official (officials) who carried out the permit control.
The acts on the selection of samples (samples) of products, inspection of environmental objects, protocols (conclusions) of studies (tests) and examinations and other documents or copies thereof related to the results of the permit control, are attached to the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with qualification or permitting requirements, if available.
If there are comments and (or) objections based on the results of the permit control, the applicant or his representatives have the right to present comments and (or) objections in writing.
Comments and (or) objections are attached to the conclusion about the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements, about which a corresponding note is made in it.
The licensing authority must consider the comments and (or) objections of the subject of control to the conclusion about the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements and give a reasoned response within fifteen working days.
In case of refusal to accept a conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements, an act is drawn up, which is signed by the officials exercising permitting control and the applicant’s manager or his authorized representative.
The applicant or his authorized representative has the right to refuse to sign the act by giving a written explanation of the reason for the refusal.
The conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements is drawn up in two copies.
The first copy of the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements remains with the licensing authority, the second copy on paper against signature or in electronic form is submitted to the applicant (the head of the legal entity or his authorized person, an individual).
Seizure and withdrawal of original accounting and other documents during the permit control is prohibited.
If the applicant meets the qualification or permitting requirements, a conclusion is drawn up on the applicant’s compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements.
2-2. When conducting the permit control, officials of the licensing authority are not entitled to:
1) verify compliance with requirements not established in the regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on approval of qualification and permitting requirements;
2) require the provision of documents, information, samples (samples) of products, samples of inspection of environmental objects and objects of the industrial environment, if they are not the objects of permit control or do not relate to its subject;
3) take product samples, inspection samples of environmental objects and industrial environment objects for carrying out their research, testing, measurements without drawing up protocols on the selection of these samples, samples in the prescribed form and (or) in quantities exceeding the norms established by national standards and the rules for selection of samples, samples and methods of their research, testing, measurements, technical regulations or other regulatory technical documents, rules and methods of research, testing, measurements valid until the day of their entry into force;
4) disclose and (or) disseminate information obtained as a result of the permit control and constituting a commercial, tax or other secret protected by law, except for cases provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) demand and make requests that are not related to the subject of the permit control.
2-3. Officials of licensing authorities, when conducting the permit control, have the right to:
1) unhindered access to the territory and premises of the applicant;
2) receive documents (information) on paper and electronic media or copies thereof for inclusion in the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with qualification or permitting requirements, as well as access to automated databases (information systems) in accordance with the subject of the permit control of the applicant in compliance with the requirements provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state secrets and other secrets protected by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) carry out audio, photo and video filming;
4) use records of technical means of control, surveillance and recording devices, photographic and video equipment related to the subject of the permit control;
5) attract specialists, consultants and experts from government bodies and subordinate organizations.
Officials of licensing authorities, when conductin the permit control, are obliged to:
1) comply with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, respect the rights and legitimate interests of applicants;
2) not interfere with the established work schedule of applicants during the period of the permit control;
3) not prevent the applicant from being present during the permit control, and provide explanations on issues related to the subject of the permit control;
4) provide the applicant with the necessary information related to the subject of the permit control;
5) ensure the safety of documents and information obtained as a result of the permit control.
2-4. When carrying out the permit control, applicants or their authorized representatives have the right: 
1) not to provide information if it does not relate to the subject of the permit control;
2) appeal the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with qualification or permitting requirements in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) record the process of carrying out the permit control, as well as individual actions of an official of the licensing authority, carried out by him within the framework of the permit control, using audio and video equipment, without creating obstacles to the activities of the official;
4) involve third parties in participation in the permit control in order to represent their interests and rights.
When carrying out the permit control, applicants or their authorized representatives are obliged to:
1) ensure unimpeded access for officials of licensing authorities to the territory and premises of the applicant;
2) in compliance with the requirements for the protection of commercial, tax or other secrets protected by law, submit to officials of licensing authorities the documents (information) on paper and electronic media or copies thereof for inclusion in the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with qualification or permitting requirements, as well as access to automated databases (information systems) in accordance with the tasks and subject of the permit control;
3) make a note on receipt on the second copy of the conclusion on the applicant’s compliance or non-compliance with the qualification or permitting requirements upon receipt;
4) ensure the safety of persons who arrived to carry out the permit control at the facility from harmful and dangerous production factors in accordance with the standards established for this facility;
5) in case of receiving a notification about the upcoming permit control, be at the location of the object of control and supervision at the appointed time and date.
3. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
4. After receiving the notification, the state body independently verifies the applicant’s compliance with the requirements established by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, decrees of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, resolutions of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan or regulatory legal acts of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations for carrying out activities in accordance with the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On state regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations”.
Footnote.

Section 137. Original section/article: 51. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law № 262-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2021 № 95-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.05.2024 № 86-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 24.06.2025 № 196-VIII (shall come into effect from 01.01.2026). 
Chapter 11. FINAL AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Section 138. Original section/article: 52. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Transitional provisions 
1. Permissions and notifications being valid before entering of this Law into force and not included into the lists of permissions and notifications provided by annexes 1, 2 and 3 to this Law, considering the exclusions provided by paragraph 2 of

Section 139. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not be compulsory for existence and the carrying out of activity or actions (operations) without these permissions and notifications shall not entail responsibility for individuals or legal entities.
2. Permission or notification order shall apply to the types of activity not subjected to licensing on a common basis in accordance with paragraph 8 of

Section 140. Original section/article: 4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On licensing” from the date of entering of this Law into force upon condition of their existence in annexes 1, 2 and 3 to this Law.
3. Carrying out of licensing bodies before 1 January 2016 shall be performed in electronic form with the use of state informational system of permissions and notifications and the state electronic register of permissions and notifications in existence of such possibility.
Carrying out of licensing procedures from the 1 January 2016 shall be performed only in electronic form with the use of state informational system of permissions and notifications and the state electronic register of permissions and notifications.
Permissions of the second category on which automation of collection and storage of permissions in the state electronic register of permissions and notifications or carrying out of licensing procedures will not be introduced and ensured till 31 December 2015 shall be subject to cancellation, with the exception of permissions of the second category included into the list not subjected to automation, approved by the joint order of the authorized body in the scope of informatization and the authorized body in the scope of permissions and notifications.
4. Licenses in the scope of using atomic energy issued before entering of this Law into force shall be subject to re-issuance for licenses with a limitation of their validity term within six months after the date of entering of this Law into force in accordance with annex 1 to this Law.
5. Licenses for the provision of services for the identification of technical channels of information leakage and special technical means, intended for operational-search activities, as well as within the framework of the activities of the information security operational center and the activities of the information security incident response service, licenses in the field of special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures, and for the development of means of cryptographic information protection, issued indefinitely, shall be subject to renewal within six months, starting from January 1, 2026, licenses with a limitation of their validity period - in accordance with Annex 1 to this Law.
Footnote.

Section 141. Original section/article: 52. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2025 № 231-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 142. Original section/article: 53. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
Order of entering of this Law into force 
1. This Law enters into force upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication.
1-1. Suspend until April 1, 2026 the effect of paragraph 9 of columns 3 and 4 of line 3 of Annex 1 of this Law.
2. The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11 January 2007 “On licensing” shall be deemed to have lost force (The Bulletin of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2007, № 2,

Section 143. Original section/article: 53. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2025 № 172-VIII (shall enter into force from 01.01.2025); dated 26.12.2025 № 242-VIII (effective from 31.12.2025); dated 26.12.2025 № 242-VIII (shall enter into force dated 31.12.2025). 
The President 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
N.Nazarbayev 
ANNEX 1 
to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
"On Permissions and Notifications" 
dated May 16, 2014 № 202-V LRK 
Note! 
Appendix 1 is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 08.07.2024 № 121-VIII (shall enter into force from 01.01.2027); dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (effective from 01.01.2027. 
LIST of permissions of the first category (licenses)
Footnote. Annex 1 as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 27.04.2015 № 311-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 13.11.2015 № 398-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 03.12.2015 № 432-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (the order of enforcement, see

Section 144. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 496-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 502-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).); dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 04.07.2018 № 171-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art. 2); № 272-VI as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced from 02.01.2020); № 289-VІ as of 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.06.2020 № 352-VI (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.07.2020 № 356-VI (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (enforcement,

Section 145. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 397-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2024); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (effective from 01.07.2021); dated 02.01.2021 № 405-VI (effective six months from the date of entry into force of this Law); dated 05.01.2021 № 407-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 25.02.2021 № 12-VII (enforcement, Article). dated 01.04.2021 № 26-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon the expiration of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.12.2021 № 87-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2021 № 96-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 31.12.2021 № 100 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); dated 03.01.2022 № 101-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.05.2022 № 118-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of entry into force of amendments and additions to the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" (Tax Code), providing for the size of the license fee rates for the right to provide disinfection services, disinsection, deratization in the field of healthcare); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2022 № 177-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated 16.11.2023 № 40-VIII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2024); dated 23.02.2024 № 64-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.05.2024 № 86-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); № 19.06.2024 dated 94-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2025); dated 22.11.2024 № 138-VIII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (shall be enforced from 31.12.2024); dated 30.12.2024 № 149-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026); dated 10.01.2025 № 153-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2025 № 205-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 14.07.2025 № 206-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026); dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 26.12.2025 № 242-VIII (for the procedure for entry into force, see

Section 146. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
).
№
п/п
Name of the license and type of activity for which a license is required
Name of the sub-type of activity for which a license is required
Note
1
2
3
4
Licensing of activities in the field of broadcasting
1.
License for distribution of TV and radio channels
1. Analog over-the-air broadcasting.
2. Digital broadcast broadcasting.
3. Satellite broadcasting.
4. Cable broadcasting.
5. Broadcasting using telecommunication networks.
Inalienable;
class 1
The licensing of activities in the field of protection and use of objects of historical and cultural heritage
2.
License for the implementation of scientific restoration work on historical and cultural monuments
Inalienable; validity period
5 years;
class 1
2-1.
Archaeological work license archaeological activities
Inalienable; validity period 5 years;
class 1
3.
License to engage in educational activities
1. Provision of primary education. 
Inalienable;
class 1 
2. Provision of basic secondary education.
Inalienable;
class 1 
3. Provision of general secondary education.
Inalienable;
class 1
4. Providing technical and vocational education in specialties included in the register of educational programs for military, special educational institutions by groups of specialties.
Inalienable;
class 1
5. Providing post-secondary education in specialties included in the register of educational programs for the military, special educational institutions by groups of specialties.
Inalienable;
class 1
6. Provision of higher education in areas of training and forms of training.
Inalienable;
validity period 5 years
(except for licenses and (or) Annexes to the license issued to military, special educational institutions, as well as those issued before the introduction of paragraph 3-1 of

Section 147. Original section/article: 57. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On education" to organizations of higher and (or) postgraduate education);
class 1
7. Provision of postgraduate education in areas of training and forms of training.
Inalienable;
validity period 5 years
(except for licenses and (or) Annexes to the license issued by the Academy of Justice, military, special educational institutions, as well as those issued before the introduction of paragraph 3-1 of

Section 148. Original section/article: 57. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On education" to organizations of higher and (or) postgraduate education);
class 1
8. Provision of spiritual education. 
Inalienable;
class 1
Note! 
Paragraph 9 has been suspended until 01.01.2026 in accordance with paragraph 1-1 of

Section 149. Original section/article: 53. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law. 
9. Provision of educational and health improvement services to minors.
Inalienable; license validity period shall be 5 years; class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of architecture, urban planning and construction
4.
License for survey activities
1. Engineering and geodetic works, including:
1) construction and laying of geodetic centers; 
2) creation of planned high-altitude survey networks; 
3) topographical works for design and construction (survey at scales from 1:10000 to 1:200, as well as surveys of underground utilities and structures, tracing and surveying of ground linear structures and their elements);
4) Geodetic works related to the transfer in nature with reference to engineering-geological workings, geophysical and other survey points.
2. Engineering-geological and engineering-hydrogeological works, including:
1) geophysical studies, reconnaissance and survey;
2) field studies of soils, hydrogeological studies
Inalienable;
class 1
5.
License for project activities 
1. Urban planning (with the right to design for urban rehabilitation of areas of historical development, with the exception of scientific and restoration work on monuments of history and culture) and planning, including the development of: 
1) planning documentation (complex schemes of urban planning of territories - projects of regional planning, general plans of settlements, projects of detailed planning and projects of development of areas, microdistricts, quarters, separate sites);
2) schemes of development of transport infrastructure of settlements (the street and road network and objects of intracity and external transport located within the borders of settlements) and inter-settlement territories (objects and communications of external transport located out of the street and road network of settlements); 
3) schemes of heat supply of settlements with placement of objects on production and transportation of heat energy in the system of building, and also heat supply of production complexes located in inter-settlement territories;
4) schemes of water supply of settlements with placement of sources of drinking and (or) technical water and tracing of water pipelines, and also schemes of water supply of production complexes located in inter-settlement territories; 
5) sewerage schemes of settlements and industrial complexes, including a centralized system of collection and drain of household, industrial and storm water, placement of main treatment facilities, evaporators and facilities for the regeneration of wastewater;
6) gas supply schemes of settlements and industrial complexes located in inter-settlement territories; 
7) schemes of power supply of settlements with placement of objects on production and transportation of electric energy in the system of building, and also power supply of production complexes located in inter-settlement territories;
8) schemes of telecommunications and communication for settlements with placement of objects of infrastructure and sources of information. 
2. Architectural design for buildings and structures (with the right to design for architectural-
restoration works, except for scientific and restoration works on monuments of history and culture), including general plans of objects, engineering preparation of the territory, improvement and organization of relief.
3. Construction design (with the right to design for major repairs and (or) reconstruction of buildings and structures, as well as strengthening of structures for each of the works mentioned below) and design, including: 
1) bases and foundations; 
2) concrete and reinforced concrete, stone and reinforced stone structures; 
3) metal (steel, aluminum and alloy) structures.
4. Design of engineering systems and networks, including: 
1) internal heating systems (including electric), ventilation, air conditioning, cold supply, gasification (low pressure gas supply) as well as their external networks with auxiliary facilities;
2) internal water supply systems (hot and cold water) and sewerage systems, as well as their external networks with auxiliary facilities; 
3) internal systems of low-voltage devices (telephone, fire alarm systems), as well as their external networks;
4) systems of internal and external electric lighting, power supply up to 0.4 kV and 10 kV;
5) power supply up to 35 kV, up to 110 kV and above; 
6) main oil pipelines, oil product pipelines, gas pipelines (gas supply of medium and high pressure).
5. Technological design (development of technological part of construction projects) of buildings and structures for housing and civil purposes, including:
1) for pre-school education, general and special education, boarding schools, personnel training institutions, research, cultural, educational and entertainment institutions, trade enterprises (including pharmacies), health care (treatment and prevention of diseases, rehabilitation and sanatorium treatment), catering and consumer services, sports-recreational and sports activities, leisure and tourism, as well as other multifunctional buildings and complexes with premises for various public purposes;
2) for transport infrastructure (intended for direct public service) and utilities (except for buildings and facilities for servicing vehicles, as well as other industrial-
economic purpose).
6. Technological design (development of technological part of construction projects) of facilities for industrial purposes, including: 
1) for energy industry; 
2) for processing industry, including light and food industry; 
3) for heavy engineering; 
4) for medical, microbiological and pharmaceutical industry; 
5)barrages, dams, other hydraulic structures;
6) tower and mast type structures; 
7) for lifting-transport devices and elevators. 
7. Technological design (development of technological part of construction projects) of objects of transport, communication and communications infrastructure, including maintenance of: 
1) intra-urban and external transport, including road, electric, rail and other rail, air, water transport;
2) local communication lines, radio, telecommunications; 
3) national and international communication lines (including satellite) and other types of telecommunications.
8. Technological design (development of technological part of transport construction projects), including: 
1) the ways of rail transport; 
2) roads of all categories; 
3) street and road network of urban electric transport;
4) bridges and bridge crossings, including overpasses, and multilevel transport junctions. 
9. Technological design (development of technological part of projects) of construction of agricultural facilities, with the exception of enterprises of processing industry. 
Inalienable;
class 1
6.
License for construction and installation works
1. Special works in soils, including:
1) installation of foundations; 
2) drilling operations in the ground; 
3) underwater-technical works and works on the sea shelf. 
2. Construction of bearing and (or) enclosing structures of buildings and structures (including bridges, transport overpasses, tunnels and crossovers, other artificial structures), including major repairs and reconstruction of facilities, including:
1) installation of metal structures; 
2) installation of building structures of tower and mast type, chimney-shafts; 
3) installation of bearing structures of bridges and bridge crossings; 
4) hydraulic and antimud slide protection facilities, barrages, dams;
5) chimney-shafts, silo construction, cooling towers, pit head copra; 
6) mining and tunnel work, the installation of anti-filtration screens; 
7) installation of building structures of lifting equipment (elevators, escalators, headgears and lifts, cable ways and other constructions of lifting equipment);
8) installation of monolithic and installation of precast concrete and concrete structures, masonry of block elements of walls and partition walls and filling the gaps; 
9) roofing works.
3. Special construction and installation works on laying of linear structures, including major repairs and reconstruction, including:
1) steel tanks (containers) working under pressure or intended for storage of explosive or other dangerous (harmful) liquid or gaseous substances;
2) field and trunk networks of oil pipelines, gas pipelines, as well as oil product trunk networks; 
3) main power lines with voltage up to 35 kV and up to 110 kV and above; 
4) national and international lines of communication and telecommunications.
4. Installation of engineering networks and systems, including major repairs and reconstruction, including: 
1) power supply networks of railways, networks of power supply and electric lighting of air transport enterprises;
2) gas supply networks of high and medium pressure, household and industrial gas supply of low pressure, internal gas supply systems;
3) networks of hot and cold water supply, heat supply, centralized sewage of household, industrial and storm water systems, construction of internal systems of water plumbing, heating and sanitation;
4) electrical networks and construction of external lighting, internal systems of lighting and electrical heating.
5. Construction of roads and railways, including major repairs and reconstruction, including: 
1) the base and the top structure of railway tracks; 
2) the base and cover, protective structures and arrangement of roads of I and II technical categories, as well as high-speed intercity highways and controlled traffic, the carriageway of main streets of city-wide significance of continuous and regulated traffic;
3) the base and cover, protective structures and arrangement of roads of III, IV and V technical categories, as well as the carriageway of settlements streets, that are not main roads; 
4) the base and cover of the runways of airfields and helipads.
6. Installation of process equipment, commissioning work related to: 
1) hydraulic engineering and reclamation facilities; 
2) production of building materials, products and structures; 
3) the objects of theatrical entertainment, educational, sports purposes;
4) communications, emergency protection, control and alarm system, blocking in transport, electricity and water supply facilities and other life-support facilities, as well as devices for metering and control of industrial purpose. 
Inalienable;
class 1
7.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication)
Licensing of activities in the sphere of hydrocarbons
8.
License for works and services in the field of hydrocarbons 
1. Field researches during exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
2. Seismic surveys for exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
3. Geophysical works during exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
4. Perforation and blasting operations in wells during exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
5. Drilling wells on land, on the sea, and in inland waters during the exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
6. Underground repairs, testing, development, sampling, conservation, abandonment of wells during exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
7. Cementation of wells during exploration and production of hydrocarbons. 
8. Increasing oil recovery from oil reservoirs and increasing well productivity during exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
9. Works to prevent and eliminate spills at hydrocarbon fields on the sea.
10. Operation of petrochemical plants.
11. Drawing up basic design documents for hydrocarbon fields and analysis of the development of hydrocarbon fields.
12. Drawing up technical design documents for hydrocarbon fields.
13. Operation of main pipelines.
Inalienable; 
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of industry
9.
License for operation of mining and chemical industries
1. Extraction of solid minerals (except for common minerals).
2. Opening and development of deposits of solid minerals by open and underground methods.
3. Conducting technological works at the fields.
4. Production of blasting operations for extraction of minerals.
5. Liquidation works on closure of pits and mines.
6. Underground and capital repair of wells, dismantling of equipment and units, installation of the well lift.
7. Testing after repair of wells.
8. Washing, cementation, testing and development of wells.
9. Operation of chemical production. 
Inalienable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 150. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 151. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
10.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
11.
License for the activities on purchase of electricity for power supply purposes 
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of information and communication
12.
License for provision of services in the field of
communication 
1. Trunk telephony.
Inalienable;
class 1
2. International telephony.
3. Mobile satellite communication.
4. Cellular communication
5. Satellite communication using non-geostationary communication satellites.
Licensing of activities in the field of digital assets
12-1.
License to carry out digital mining activities
1. I subtype – the implementation of digital mining activities by a digital miner who has a digital mining data processing center on the basis of the right of ownership or other legal grounds.
2. II subtype – the implementation of digital mining activities by a digital miner who does not have a digital mining data processing center on the basis of the right of ownership or other legal grounds and carries out digital mining using a hardware and software complex for digital mining owned by him on the basis of the right of ownership, located in a digital mining data processing center.
Inalienable; 
validity period of 3 years; the effect of part one of 
paragraph 3 of

Section 152. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraph 1, 2 of

Section 153. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this
Law is not applied when issuing a license; 
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors
13.
License for the activities in the sphere of trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors
1. Development, production, processing, transportation, shipment, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, use, destruction of drugs.
Inalienable; 
the validity term is 5 years; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 154. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 155. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
2. Production of psychotropic substances and precursors. 
3. Development, processing, transportation, shipment, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, use, destruction of psychotropic substances and precursors.
Inalienable; 
the validity term is 5 years;
class 1
4. Cultivation, collection, harvesting of plants and herbs containing narcotic drugs.
Inalienable; 
the validity term is 5 years; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 156. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 157. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
5. Cultivation, collection, harvesting of plants and herbs containing psychotropic substances.
Inalienable; 
the validity term is 5 years;
class 1
6. For the activities related to trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors in the field of healthcare.
Inalienable; 
the validity term is 5 years;
class 1
14.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
Licensing of activities in the sphere of healthcare
15.
License for medical activity
1. Emergency medical care and (or) sanitary aviation. 
2. Outpatient care for adults and (or) children in the following specialties: primary health care: pre-medical, qualified;
consultative and diagnostic assistance:
diagnostics:
radioisotope, radiological, ultrasonic, functional, endoscopic;
laboratory diagnostics:
bacteriological, biochemical, immunological studies, general clinical, serological, cytological studies;
obstetrics and gynecology;
pediatrics;
neonatology;
infectious diseases;
therapy;
neurology;
cardiology;
rheumatology;
gastroenterology;
nephrology;
pulmonology;
endocrinology;
allergology and immunology;
hematology;
professional pathology;
general medical practice;
general surgery: thoracic, abdominal, coloproctology;
transplantology: 
transplantation of organs (parts of organs), 
transplantation of tissue (parts of tissue), transplantation of preserved corneal tissue, transplantation of cells, autologous transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells;
cardiac surgery;
angiosurgery;
plastic surgery;
maxillofacial;
neurosurgery;
otorhinolaryngology;
ophthalmology;
transfusiology;
urology;
traumatology-orthopedics;
anesthesiology and resuscitation;
dermatovenereology (dermatocosmetology);
psychiatry:
narcology, psychotherapy, sexopathology, medical psychology;
phthisiology;
oncology;
dentistry;
traditional medicine:
homeopathy, hirudotherapy, manual therapy, reflexology, herbal medicine and treatment with natural products;
medical rehabilitation, rehabilitation treatment:
physiotherapy, massage, physiotherapy exercises, balneology;
medical genetics;
radiation therapy;
sports medicine.
3. Inpatient care and (or) inpatient replacing care for adults and (or) children in the following specialties: 
diagnostics: 
radioisotope, x-ray, ultrasound, functional, endoscopic, pathological anatomy;
laboratory diagnostics: 
bacteriological, biochemical, immunological studies, laboratory diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV diagnosis), general clinical, serological, cytological studies;
obstetrics and gynecology; 
pediatrics; 
neonatology; 
infectious diseases; 
therapy; 
neuropathology; 
cardiology; 
rheumatology; 
gastroenterology; 
nephrology;
pulmonology; 
endocrinology; 
allergology and immunology; 
hematology;
professional pathology;
general medical practice; 
general surgery: 
thoracic, abdominal, coloproctology; 
transplantology:
transplantation of organs (parts of organs), 
transplantation of tissue (parts of tissue), 
transplantation of preserved corneal tissue, transplantation of cells, autologous transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells;
cardiac surgery; 
angiosurgery; 
plastic surgery;
maxillofacial;
neurosurgery;
otorhinolaryngology;
ophthalmology;
transfusiology;
urology;
traumatology and orthopedics; 
anesthesiology and intensive care;
dermatovenereology (dermatocosmetology);
psychiatry:
narcology, psychotherapy, sexual pathology, medical psychology; 
phthisiology; 
oncology; 
dentistry; 
traditional medicine: 
homeopathy, hirudotherapy, manual therapy,
reflexotherapy, phytotherapy and treatment with means of natural origin; 
medical rehabilitation, rehabilitation treatment:
physiotherapy, massage, physical therapy, balneology; 
sports medicine;
toxicology; 
perfusiology; 
radiation therapy.
4. Preparation, preservation, processing, storage and sale of blood and its components.
5. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-IV (shall be enforced from 01.07.2016).
6. Examination of temporary disability and professional suitability.
Inalienable;
class 1
16.
License for pharmaceutical activity
1. Production of medicines. 
2. Production of medical devices. 
3. Manufacturing of medical products.
4. Manufacturing of medical devices. 
5. Wholesale sale of medicines. 
6. Retail sale of medicines.
Inalienable; 
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of atomic energy use
17.
License for the performance of works, connected with stages of life cycle of objects of atomic energy use
1. Construction of nuclear facilities, radioactive waste storage facilities.
Inalienable;
the validity term of the license is 5 years; the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 158. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 159. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
2. Operation of nuclear facilities, radioactive waste storage facilities.
3. Decommissioning of nuclear facilities, radioactive waste storage facilities. 
4. Management of works and projects in the placement, construction, decommissioning of nuclear facilities.
18.
License for radioactive waste management activities
1. Collection and sorting of radioactive waste.
Inalienable;
the validity term of the license is 5 years; the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 160. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 161. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1 
2. Decontamination (purification from radioactive contamination) of premises, equipment and materials.
3. Processing of radioactive waste. 
4. Storage and disposal of radioactive waste. 
5. Radiation rehabilitation, reclamation of territories and facilities.
19.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.02.2021 № 12-VII (effective from 01.01.2021).
20.
License for the activity in the territories of former nuclear test sites and other territories contaminated as a result of nuclear tests
Inalienable;
class 1
21.
License for providing services in atomic power use
1. Maintenance, installation, dismantling, charging, recharging, repair of devices and installations, including medical ones, containing radioisotope sources of ionizing radiation or generating ionizing radiation.
Inalienable; 
the license is valid 5 years (excepting subtypes 
“Special training of staff, responsible for nuclear and radiation safety” and “Physical protection of nuclear installations and nuclear materials”); 
part one of paragraph 3

Section 162. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 163. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing license 
class 1 
2. Quality control of the ionizing radiation sources operation, also of devices, equipment, installations containing such sources or generating ionizing radiation.
3. Radiation monitoring of territories, premises, workplaces, goods, materials, scrap metal, vehicles.
4. Determination of the content of radionuclides in products, materials, environmental objects, measurement of the concentration of radon and other radioactive gases.
5. Individual dosimetric control of personnel.
6.Special training of staff, responsible for nuclear and radiation safety.
7 Physical protection of nuclear installations and nuclear materials.
22.
License for handling devices and installations generating ionizing radiation
1. Manufacture of devices and installations generating ionizing radiation.
For the subtype "manufacture of devices and installations generating ionizing radiation",
for the subtype "use of devices and installations generating ionizing radiation" (except for x-ray equipment for inspection of hand luggage and baggage, x-ray diffractometers, spectrometers, analyzers) –
inalienable;
the validity term of the license is 5 years; the effect of the part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 164. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 165. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1.
For the subtype "use of devices and installations generating ionizing radiation" (x-ray equipment for inspection of hand luggage and baggage, x-ray diffractometers, spectrometers, analyzers) – inalienable;
class 1
2. Use of devices and installations generating ionizing radiation.
2. Use of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
3. Storage of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
4. Realization of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
5. Extraction and processing of natural uranium.
23.
License for handling radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances
1. Production of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
Inalienable;
the license is valid 5 years;
part one of paragraph 3

Section 166. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 167. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing the license 
class1
2. The use of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
3. Storage of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
4. Sale of radioactive substances, devices and installations containing radioactive substances.
24.
License for transportation, including transit, nuclear materials, radioactive substances, radioisotope sources of ionizing radiation, radioactive waste within the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Inalienable;
the validity term of the license is 5 years; the effect of the part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 168. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 169. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
25.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.02.2021 № 12-VII (effective from01.01.2021).
26.
License for handling radioactive materials
1. Sale of nuclear materials.
Inalienable;
the license is valid 5 years;
part one of paragraph 3

Section 170. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 171. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing the license; class 1
2. Use of nuclear materials
3. Storage of nuclear materials.
4. Extraction and procession of natural uranium.
Licensing of activities in the sphere of information security
27.
License for development of cryptographic information protection tools
Inalienable;
license validity period - 5 years;
class 1 
28.
License for the provision of services to identify technical channels of information leakage and special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures, as well as within the framework of the activities of the information security operational center and the activities of the information security incident response service
1. identification of technical channels of information leakage and special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures.
2. identification of technical channels of information leakage and special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures, within the framework of the activities of the operational center of information security.
3. Identification of technical channels of information leakage and special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures as part of the activities of the information security incident response service.
Inalienable;
license validity period - 3 years;
for subspecies, the license shall be valid for 3 years; class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of special technical means intended for operational search actions
29.
License to carry out activities for the development, production, repair and implementation of special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures
1. development and production of special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures.
2. repair and implementation of special technical means intended for conducting operational-search measures.
Inalienable; license validity period - 5 years;
for subspecies, the license validity period shall be 5 years;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of arms, military equipment and certain types of weapons, explosives and products with their use
30.
License for the activities on development, production, repair, trade, collecting, exhibiting civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it
1. Development of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it.
Inalienable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 172. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 173. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
2. Production of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it. 
3. Repair of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it. 
4. Trade in civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it. 
5. Collecting civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it. 
6. Exhibiting civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it.
31.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
32.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.03.2019 №237-VI (effective from 01.01.2020)
33.
License for the activities on development, production, trade, use of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use
1. Development of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use.
Inalienable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 174. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 175. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
2. Production of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use. 
3. Trade in civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use. 
4. Use of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use 
34.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
35.
License for the activities on development, production, purchase, sale, storage of explosives and pyrotechnics (except for civilian) substances and products with their use
1. Development of explosive and pyrotechnic (except for civilian) substances and products with their use.
2. Production of explosive and pyrotechnic (except for civilian) substances and products with their use.
3. Acquisition and sale of explosive and pyrotechnic (with the exception of civilian) substances and products with their use.
4. Acquisition and sale of explosive and pyrotechnic (with the exception of civilian) substances and products with their use for own production needs.
5. Storage of explosive and pyrotechnic (except for civilian) substances and products with their use.
Inalienable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 176. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 177. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
36.
License for the activities on development, production, repair, purchase and sale of ammunition, weapons and military equipment, spare parts, components and devices, as well as special materials and equipment for their production, including installation, adjustment, modernization, installation, use, storage, repair and maintenance
1. Development, production of ammunition, weapons and military equipment, spare parts, components and devices for them, special materials, equipment for their production, including installation, adjustment, modernization, installation, use, storage, repair and maintenance.
Inalienable;
class 1
2. Repair of ammunition, weapons and military equipment, spare parts, components and devices for them, special materials, equipment for their production, including installation, adjustment, modernization, installation, use, storage, repair and maintenance.
3. Purchase and sale of ammunition, weapons and military equipment, spare parts, components and devices for them, special materials, equipment for their production, including installation, adjustment, modernization, installation, use, storage, repair and maintenance
37.
License to carry out liquidation through destruction, disposal, burial and conversion of released ammunition, weapons, military hardware, special means
1. Elimination through destruction, recycling, utilization and conversion of released munitions.
Inalienable; first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 178. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 179. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing the license;
class1
2. Elimination through destruction, recycling, burial and conversion of released weapons, military hardware, special means
Licensing of activities in the sphere of turnover of toxic substances
38.
License for the activities on production, processing, purchase, storage, sale, use, destruction of poisons
1. Production, processing, storage, sale, destruction of poisons.
Inalienable; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 180. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 181. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply; 
class 1
2. Purchase, storage, sale, use of poisons. 
3. Purchase, storage, sale of poisons
39.
License for production (formulation) of pesticides, sale of pesticides, use of pesticides by aerosol and fumigation methods
1. Production (formulation) of pesticides
Inalienable;
class 1
2. Sale of pesticides
3. Use of pesticides by aerosol and fumigation methods
Licensing of activities in the sphere of production of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan
40.
License for the activities on production of the National Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the State Emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of production and circulation of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages, production of tobacco products
41.
License for the production of alcoholic beverages
1. Category – distillates:
1) production of distillates.
2. Category – alcoholic drinks:
1) production of vodka;
2) production of strong alcoholic beverages;
3) whiskey production.
3. Category – honey products:
1) production of honey drinks;
2) production of honey vodka.
4. Category – brewing products:
1) beer production;
2) production of drinks based on beer (beer drinks).
5. Category – low alcohol drinks:
1) production of low-alcohol drinks.
6. Category – wine products:
1) wine production;
2) production of brandy;
3) production of grape vodkas or fruit vodkas;
4) production of wine drink;
5) production of bulk wine.
Inalienable; class 1
42.
License for storage and wholesale of alcoholic beverages, except for the activities of storage and wholesale of alcoholic beverages in the territory of its production
Inalienable;
class 1
43.
License for storage and retail sale of alcoholic beverages, except for the activities of storage and retail sale of alcoholic beverages in the territory of its production
Alienable; 
class 2
44.
License for production of ethyl alcohol 
Inalienable;
class 1
45.
License for production of tobacco products
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of commodity exchanges
46.
License for the right to engage in the activities of commodity exchanges
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2024 № 149-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026).
2. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2024 № 149-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026).
Inalienable;
class 1
46-1.
License for the right to engage in brokerage activities in the field of commodity exchanges
Inalienable; class 1
46-2.
License for the right to engage in clearing activities in the field of commodity exchanges
Inalienable; class 1
47.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
48.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
Licensing in the sphere of export and import
49.
License for import and (or) export of certain types of goods
Inalienable;
class 3
49-1.
License for export and (or) import of goods included in the Unified list of goods subject to non-tariff regulation in trade with third countries
Inalienable;
class 3
50.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
51.
Export and import license for specific goods
1. Import of specific goods.
Inalienable;
class 3
2. Export of specific goods.
3. General license for the export of dual-use goods or goods controlled to ensure the national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
52.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
Licensing of activities in the financial sphere and activities related to concentration of financial resources
53.
License for conducting banking and other operations:
1. Acceptance of deposits, opening and maintaining bank accounts of legal entities.
2. Acceptance of deposits, opening and maintaining bank accounts of individuals.
3. Opening and maintaining correspondent accounts of banks and organizations carrying out certain types of banking operations.
4. Opening and maintaining by banks and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan metal accounts of individuals and legal entities, which reflect the physical quantity of refined precious metals and coins made of precious metals owned by this person. 
5. Cash operations: acceptance and issuance of cash by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Postal Operator, including their change, exchange, recalculation, sorting, packaging and storage.
6. Transfer operations: execution of orders from individuals and legal entities for payments and money transfers.
7. Accounting operations: accounting (discount) of bills and other debt obligations of individuals and legal entities. 
8. Bank borrowing operations: provision by a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a mortgage organization, an organization that is not a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, carrying out brokerage and (or) dealer activities in the securities market, or organizations providing lending subjects of the agro-industrial complex, one hundred percent of the voting shares of which directly or indirectly belong to the national management holding company, loans in cash on the terms of payment, urgency and repayment. 
9. Exchange transactions with foreign currency, including exchange transactions with cash foreign currency.
10. Collection of banknotes, coins and valuables.
11. Acceptance of payment documents for collection (except for bills of exchange).
12. Opening (issuance) and confirmation of a letter of credit and fulfillment of obligations under it.
13. Issuance by banks and branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan of bank guarantees providing for execution in cash.
14. Issuance by banks, branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan of bank guarantees, and other obligations for third parties, providing for execution in cash.
15. Purchase, acceptance as collateral, accounting, storage, and sale of refined precious metals (gold, silver, platinum, platinum group metals) in bars, precious metal coins. 16. Purchase, acceptance as collateral, accounting, storage, and sale of jewelry containing precious metals and precious stones.
17. Operations with bills of exchange: acceptance of bills of exchange for collection, provision of services for payment of bills of exchange by the payer, as well as payment of domiciled bills of exchange, acceptance of bills of exchange through mediation.
18. Carrying out leasing activities.
19. Issuance of own securities (except for shares). 
20. Factoring operations: acquisition of rights to demand payment from the buyer of goods (works, services) with the assumption of the risk of non-payment.
21. Forfeiting operations (forfeiting): payment of the debt obligation of the buyer of goods (works, services) by purchasing a promissory note without turnover to the seller.
22. Trust operations: management of money, claims on bank loans, and refined precious metals in the interests and on behalf of the principal. 
23. Safe operations: services for the storage of securities issued in documentary form, documents, and valuables of clients, including the rental of safe boxes, cabinets, and premises
24. Acceptance of deposits in housing construction savings, opening and maintaining depositor accounts. 
25. Providing housing, intermediate housing, and preliminary housing loans to investors for carrying out measures to improve housing conditions.
26. Acceptance of deposits, opening and maintaining bank accounts of depositors of savings for capital repairs of the common property of the condominium object, and providing them with housing loans. 
27. Opening and maintaining current bank accounts of individuals by housing construction savings banks for crediting lump-sum pension payments in order to improve living conditions and (or) pay for treatment.
28. Opening and maintaining current bank accounts of individuals by housing construction savings banks for the transfer of payments and subsidies in order to pay for rented housing in a private housing fund.
29. Opening and maintaining current accounts of individuals intended for crediting payments of targeted savings in order to improve living conditions and (or) pay for education by housing construction savings banks.
30. Acceptance of deposits, opening and maintaining bank accounts of individuals by housing construction savings banks for participation in the state educational savings system.
31. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
32. Exchange operations with foreign currency.
33. Confidential operations of the management of the right of claim on mortgage loans in the interests and on behalf of the truster.
34. Trust operations of money management in the interests and on behalf of the truster for crediting payments and subsidies for the purpose of paying for rented housing in a private housing stock and providing social support measures to specialists in the field of healthcare, education, social support, culture, sports and agricultural complex, public servants of the offices of akims of settlements, villages, rural districts who arrived for the work and residence in rural settlements.
35. Trust operations of money management in the interests and on behalf of the truster within the framework of the state educational savings system.
36. Opening and maintenance by housing construction savings banks of current bank accounts of individuals for crediting payments of savings from an educational savings deposit or insurance payments under an educational savings insurance contract for improving housing conditions.
37. Provision of loans in cash by housing construction savings banks on the terms of payment, urgency and repayment within the framework of the state educational savings system.
Inalienable; the competition procedure is not applicable; Part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 182. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 183. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a license;
class 1
54.
License for the activities in the securities market
1. Custodial activities. 
2. Activity on organization of trade with securities and other financial instruments. 
3. Clearing activity on transactions with financial instruments.
4. Implementation of transfer-agency activities. 
5. Brokerage activity. 
6. Dealer activity, 
7. The activity on investment portfolio management: 
1) activity on management investment portfolio with the right to attract voluntary pension contributions (voluntary accumulative pension fund); 
2) activity on management investment portfolio without the right to attract voluntary pension contributions
Inalienable; 
the competition procedure is not applicable; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 184. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 185. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
55.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
56.
License for the right to carry out activity of an insurance broker
1. On the conclusion of insurance contracts 
2. On the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance
Inalienable; 
the competition procedure is not applicable; 
the effect of 
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 186. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 187. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply; class 1
57.
License for banking and other operations performed by Islamic banks, branches of Islamic banks that are non-residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Acceptance of interest-free deposits on demand of individuals and legal entities, opening and maintaining bank accounts of individuals and legal entities.
2. Acceptance of investment deposits of individuals and legal entities.
3. Bank loan operations: provision by an Islamic bank, a branch of Islamic bank that is non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan of loans in cash on terms of urgency, repayment and without charging a fee.
4. Financing of individuals and legal entities as a commercial intermediary through the provision of commercial credit:
1) without a term of further sale of the goods to a third party;
2) on the terms of the subsequent sale of the goods to a third party.
5. Financing of production and trade activities through participation in the authorized capital of legal entities and (or) on the terms of partnership.
6. Investment activity on the terms of leasing (rent).
7. Agency activity when conducting banking operations of an Islamic bank, a branch of Islamic bank that is non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inalienable; 
the competition procedure is not applicable; 
the effect of 
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 188. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 189. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
58.
License for the right to carry out insurance (reinsurance) activities in the sector "general insurance"
1. Accident insurance. 
2. Health insurance. 
3. Motor transport insurance. 
4. Railway transport insurance. 
5. Air transport insurance.
6. Water transport insurance. 
7. Cargos insurance. 
8. Property insurance against damage, except for classes, specified in subparagraphs 3), 4), 5), 6), 6-1) and 7) of paragraph 3 of

Section 190. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities". 
9. Insurance of civil liability of motor vehicle owners.
10. Insurance of civil liability of air transport owners. 
11. Insurance of civil liability of water transport owners. 
12. Civil liability insurance, except for classes, specified in subparagraphs 9), 10), 11), 11-1) and 11-2) of paragraph 3 of

Section 191. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities".
13. Insurance of corporate loans. 
14. Mortgage insurance. 
15. Insurance of guarantees and sureties. 
16. Insurance of losses of financial organizations, except for the classes, specified in subparagraphs 13), 14), 15) and 16) of paragraph 3 of

Section 192. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities".
17. Insurance against other financial losses. 
18. Title insurance. 
19. Insurance of court costs.
20. Insurance of space objects.
21. Insurance of civil liability of the owners of space objects.
22. Professional liability insurance.
Inalienable; 
the competition procedure is not applicable; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 193. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 194. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply; 
class 1
58-1.
License for the right to carry out islamic insurance (reinsurance) activities in the sector "general insurance"
1. Accident insurance. 
2. Health insurance. 
3. Motor transport insurance. 
4. Railway transport insurance. 
5. Air transport insurance.
6. Water transport insurance. 
7. Cargos insurance. 
8. Property insurance against damage, except for classes, specified in subparagraphs 3)- 7) of paragraph 3 of

Section 195. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities". 
9. Insurance of civil liability of motor vehicle owners.
10. Insurance of civil liability of air transport owners. 
11. Insurance of civil liability of water transport owners. 
12. Civil liability insurance, except for classes, specified in subparagraphs 9)-11) of paragraph 3 of

Section 196. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities".
13. Loans insurance. 
14. Mortgage insurance. 
15. Insurance of guarantees and sureties. 
16. Insurance of losses of financial organizations, except for the classes, specified in subparagraphs 13), 14), 15) and 16) of paragraph 3 of

Section 197. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Insurance Activities".
17. Insurance against other financial losses. 
18. Title insurance. 
19. Insurance of court costs.
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 198. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 199. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
59.
License to carry out activities in the industry "life insurance"
1. Life insurance, with the exception of the class specified in subparagraph 3) of paragraph 2 of

Section 200. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On insurance activities."
2. Annuity insurance, except for the class specified in subparagraph 4) of paragraph 2 of

Section 201. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On insurance activities."
3. Life insurance within the framework of the state educational funded system.
4. Pension annuity insurance.
Inalienable; the tender procedure is not applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 202. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1 2 of

Section 203. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a license; class 1
59-1.
License for the right to carry out Islamic insurance activities in the industry "life insurance"
1. Life insurance, with the exception of the class specified in subparagraph 3) of paragraph 2 of

Section 204. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On insurance activities."
2. Annuity insurance, except for the class specified in subparagraph 4) of paragraph 2 of

Section 205. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On insurance activities."
3. Life insurance within the framework of the state educational funded system.
4. Pension annuity insurance.
Inalienable; the tender procedure shall not be applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 206. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1 2 of

Section 207. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a license; class 1
60.
License issued to legal entities whose exclusive activity is collection of banknotes, coins and valuables
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 208. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 209. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
61.
A license for exchange transactions with foreign currency in cash issued to authorized organizations
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 210. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 211. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
62.
License, issued to the organizations carrying out certain types of banking operations, for banking operations
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 212. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 213. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
62-1.
License to carry out microfinance activities
Inalienable; the tender procedure is not applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 214. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 215. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing the license; class 1
63.
License for the types of compulsory insurance, established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and being separate classes of insurance
1. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of vehicle owners. 
2. Compulsory insurance of the carrier's civil liability before passengers. 
3. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of private notaries.
4. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of audit organizations. 
5. Compulsory tourist insurance. 
7. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of objects owners, whose activities are associated with the risk of harm to third parties. 
8. Compulsory insurance of the employee from accidents during execution of labour (service) duties. 
9. Compulsory environmental insurance
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 216. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 217. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
63-1.
License for the right to carry out islamic insurance activities by types of compulsory insurance, established by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and being separate classes of insurance
1. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of vehicle owners. 
2. Compulsory insurance of the carrier's civil liability before passengers. 
3. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of private notaries.
4. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of audit organizations. 
5. Compulsory tourist insurance. 
7. Compulsory insurance of civil liability of objects owners, whose activities are associated with the risk of harm to third parties. 
8. Compulsory insurance of the employee from accidents during execution of labour (service) duties. 
9. Compulsory environmental insurance
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 218. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 219. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
64.
License for reinsurance activities 
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 220. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 221. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
64-1.
The license for the right to carry out activity on islamic reinsurance
Inalienable;
the competition procedure is not applicable;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 222. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 223. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply;
class 1
65.
License for actuarial activities in the insurance market
Inalienable; the tender procedure shall not be applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 224. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1 2 of

Section 225. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a license; class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of space use
66.
License for carrying out activities in the sphere of space use
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of gambling business
67.
License to operate a slot machine hall
Inalienable; the license is valid for 10 years; class 2
68.
License to engage in casino activities
Inalienable; the license is valid for 10 years; class 2
69.
License to engage in totalizer activity
Inalienable; the license is valid for 10 years; class 1
70.
License to engage in bookmaker's office activities
Inalienable; the license is valid for 10 years; class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of veterinary
71.
License to engage in the activities for conducting veterinary and sanitary examination of products and raw materials of animal origin
Inalienable;
class 1
72.
License to engage in the activities for production of drugs of veterinary purpose 
1. Production of drugs for treatment and prevention of animal diseases.
2. Production of drugs for diagnosis of animal diseases.
3. Production of drugs with pharmacological activity.
4. Production of drugs intended to increase the productivity of animals.
5. Production of drugs for disinfection, deratization, disinsection.
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of agriculture
73.
License for rendering services in warehouse activities with the issue of grain receipts
Inalienable;
class 2
74.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.01.2021 № 409-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022).
Licensing of activities in the sphere of transport
75.
License for the right to engage in the activities for irregular transportation of passengers by buses, minibuses in intercity, interregional, interdistrict (intercity intra-regional) and international traffic, as well as regular transportation of passengers by buses, minibuses in international traffic
Inalienable;
class 1
76.
License for transportation of cargos in the sphere of railway transport
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of forensic science
77.
License to engage in forensic activities, including forensic medical, forensic narcological and forensic psychiatric examinations
Inalienable;
class 1
Licensing of activities in the sphere of services to individuals and legal entities
78.
License to engage in law activity
Inalienable;
class 5
79.
License for the right to engage in notarial activities
Inalienable;
class 5
80.
License for audit activity 
Inalienable;
class 1
81.
License to engage in the activities of a private bailiff
Inalienable;
class 5
82.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication)
83.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication)
84.
License for performing works and rendering services in the field of environmental protection
1. Environmental design, standardization for category I facilities
2. Processing, neutralization, recycling and (or) destruction of hazardous waste
Inalienable;
class 1
85.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 496-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication)
86.
License to carry out security activities by legal entities.
1. All types of security services, including protection of objects vulnerable to terrorism.
2. All types of security services, excepting protection of objects vulnerable to terrorism
Inalienable; class 1
87.
License for tourist operator activity
1) in outbound tourism
2) in inbound and domestic tourism
Inalienable;
class 1
87-1.
License to provide services for disinfection, disinfestation, deratization in the field of healthcare
Inalienable;
class 1
88.
License to provide special social services
All types of special social services
Inalienable; the validity of the license is 3 years; class 1
ANNEX 2 
to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
"On Permissions and Notifications" 
dated May 16, 2014 № 202-V LRK 
Appendix 2 provides for amendments by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.03.2025 № 172-VIII (shall enter into force from 01.01.2026); dated 19.05.2025 № 188-VIII (effective from 01.01.2026). 
LIST of permissions of the second category
Footnote. Annex 2 as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.09.2014 № 239-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 226. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 13.01.2015 № 276-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.04.2015 № 311-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.06.2015 № 322-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2015 № 366-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of three months after its first official publication). dated 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.10.2015 № 376-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016);dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 421-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (the order of enforcement see Art. 2); from 07.04.2016 № 487-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of thirty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.02.2017 № 49-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.06.2017 № 73-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication);dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 24.05.2018 № 156-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2018 № 168-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).); excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (effective from 01.01.2022); dated 28.12.2018 № 208-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 215-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication). dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.04.2019 № 243-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 249-VI as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art. 2); № 272-VI as of 25.11.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art. 3); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (effective from 01.01.2021); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 397-VI (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 16.12.2020); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (effective from 01.07.2021); dated 01.04.2021 № 26-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2021 № 59-VII (shall enter into force from 01.01.2022); dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2022 № 138-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.12.2022 № 167-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2023 № 184-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (the order of enforcement see Art. 2); dated 21.05.2024 № 86-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 97-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 130-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 13.01.2025 № 157-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.03.2025 № 172-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026); dated 09.04.2025 № 179-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.05.2025 № 188-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026); dated 12.06.2025 № 194-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 24.06.2025 № 196-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026); dated 30.06.2025 № 204-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2025 № 205-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
№
п\п
The name of the permitting procedure
Name of the permit and type of activity (action) for which the permit is required
Note
1
2
3
4
Class 1 - "permits issued for activities"
1.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
2.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
3.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
4.
Consideration of a petition for the consent to economic concentration on the reorganization of a market entity by merger or accession
The order of the antimonopoly body for the consent (prohibition) to economic concentration on the reorganization of a market entity through merger or acquisition
5.
Consideration of a petition for the consent to economic concentration on the purchase by a person (group of persons) of voting shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of market entity, in which such person (group of persons) shall get the right to dispose more than twenty-five percent of the specified shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units), if prior to the purchase, such person (group of persons) did not dispose of shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of this market entity or disposed twenty-five or less percent of the voting shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of the specified market entity.
The order of the antimonopoly body for the consent (prohibition) to economic concentration on the purchase by a person (group of persons) of voting shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of market entity, in which such person (group of persons) shall get the right to dispose more than twenty-five percent of the specified shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units), if prior to the purchase, such person (group of persons) did not dispose of shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of this market entity or disposed twenty-five or less percent of the voting shares (participation stakes in the charter capital, units) of the specified market entity
6.
Consideration of the petition for the consent to economic concentration on obtaining in property, possession and use, including in payment (transfer) for the charter capital, by the market entity (group of persons) of fixed production assets and (or) intangible assets of other market entity, if the book value of the property constituting the subject of the transaction (interrelated transactions) exceeds ten percent of the book value of fixed production assets and intangible assets of the market entity alienating or transferring property
The order of antimonopoly body for the consent (prohibition) to economic concentration on obtaining in property, possession and use, including in payment (transfer) for the charter capital, by the market entity (group of persons) of fixed production assets and (or) intangible assets of other market entity, if the book value of the property constituting the subject of the transaction (interrelated transactions) exceeds ten percent of the book value of fixed production assets and intangible assets of the market entity alienating or transferring property
7.
Consideration of the petition for the consent to economic concentration on the purchase by a market entity of the rights (including on the basis of a trust management agreement, a joint activity agreement, a commission agreement), allowing to give binding instructions to another market entity in the conduct of its business or to perform the functions of its executive body
Consent to economic concentration; A letter of notification on prohibition to economic concentration on the purchase by a market entity of the rights (including on the basis of a trust management agreement, a joint activity agreement, a commission agreement), allowing to give binding instructions to another market entity in the conduct of its business or to perform the functions of its executive body
8.
Consideration of the petition for the consent to economic concentration on participation of the same individuals in the executive bodies, boards of directors, supervisory boards or other governing bodies of two or more market entities, subject to determination of conditions for conducting their entrepreneurial activity by the specified individuals in these entities 
Consent to economic concentration; A letter of notification on prohibition to economic concentration on participation of the same individuals in the executive bodies, boards of directors, supervisory boards or other governing bodies of two or more market entities, subject to determination of conditions for conducting their entrepreneurial activity by the specified individuals in these entities 
9.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
10.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
11.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
12.
Issuance of a certificate on approval of the vehicle for the carriage of dangerous cargo in international traffic
A certificate on approval of the vehicle for the carriage of dangerous cargo in international traffic
13.
Issuance of a special permit for the carriage of dangerous cargo of classes 1, 6 and 7 
A special permit for the carriage of dangerous cargo of classes 1, 6 and 7
14.
Issuance of the international certificate of weighing to cargo vehicles
International certificate of weighing to cargo vehicles
15.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-IV (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017)
16.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2018 № 168-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days from the date of its first official publication).
17.
Determination by an authorized body of a specialized educational center for training and professional development of employees, holding the positions of the head and security guard in a private security organization
The order of the Minister of internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On determination of a specialized educational center for training and professional development of employees, holding the positions of the head and security guard in a private security organization"
18.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
19.
Approval of the schedule of regular flights of foreign air carriers 
on international air routes of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Schedules of regular flights of foreign air carriers on international air routes of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Inalienable
20.
Approval of the authorized body for the establishment of a security organization by the national company
Letter of approval for the establishment of a security organization by the national company 
21.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
22.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
23.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
24.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
25.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
26.
Registration, re-registration of foreign TV and radio channels distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Certificate of registration, re-registration of foreign TV and radio channels distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
27.
Accreditation of professional organization of accountants
Certificate of accreditation of professional organization of accountants
28.
Accreditation of the organization for professional certification of accountants
Certificate of accreditation of the organization for professional certification of accountants
29.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2020 № 359-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021).
29-1.
Registration of collection agencies
Notification of the collection agency on its entry to the registry of collection agencies
Unlimited permit; 
the procedure of competition is not applicable; 
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 227. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 228. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
30.
Registration or re-registration of periodical printed publications and online publications
Certificate of registration, re-registration of periodical printed publications, and online publications
31.
Registration, re-registration of foreign periodicals, distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Certificate of registration, re-registration of foreign periodicals, distributed on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
32.
Registration, re-registration of domestic TV and radio channels
Certificate of registration, re-registration of domestic TV and radio channels
33.
excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 04.07.2018 № 173-VI (effective from 01.01.2022).
Accreditation of gas network organizations
Certificate of accreditation of gas network organizations
34.
Issuance of certificates of admission to implementation of international automobile transportation and a card of admission for vehicles
Certificate of admission to implementation of international automobile transportation of cargos and a card of admission for the vehicle
35.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
36.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
37.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
38.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
39.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
40.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
41.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.05.2017 № 64-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
42.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
43.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
44.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
45.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
46.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017)
47.
Issuance of an environmental impact permit 
Environmental impact permit
48.
Issuance of a permit to work with the use of ozone-depleting substances, repair, installation, maintenance of equipment containing ozone-depleting substances
Permission to work with ozone-depleting substances, repair, installation, maintenance of equipment containing ozone-depleting substances
49.
Issuance of a comprehensive environmental permit
Comprehensive environmental permission
50.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
51.
Conclusion of the authorized body of the member states of the Eurasian economic Union on the transit of hazardous waste through the customs territory of the Eurasian economic Union
Conclusion
52.
Inclusion in the register of customs carriers
Decision on inclusion in the register of customs carriers
53.
Inclusion in the register of customs carriers
Decision on inclusion in the register of customs representatives 
54.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
55.
Inclusion in the register of owners of temporary storage warehouses
Decision on inclusion in the register of owners of temporary storage warehouses 
56.
Inclusion in the register of owners of customs warehouses 
Decision on inclusion in the register of owners of customs warehouses
57.
Inclusion in the register of owners of duty-free shops
Decision on inclusion in the register of owners of duty-free shops
57-1.
Accreditation of a specialized organization carrying out a resource survey
Certificate of accreditation of a specialized organization carrying out a resource survey
58.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
59.
Accreditation of a professional audit organization
Certificate on accreditation of professional audit organization
60.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
61.
Certification of legal entities for the right to work in the field of industrial safety
Certificate for the right to work in the field of industrial safety
61-1.
Certification of professional emergency rescue services in industrial safety area
Certificate for the right to conduct at a hazardous production facility:
- mine rescue operations;
- gas rescue operations;
- well-kill works
62.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
63.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
64.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
65.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
66.
Certification of professional fire-fighting services for the right to carry out work on preventing and extinguishing fires, ensuring fire safety and carrying out emergency rescue operations related to extinguishing fires in organizations, populated areas and at facilities
Certificate for the right to carry out work on preventing and extinguishing fires, ensuring fire safety and carrying out emergency rescue operations related to extinguishing fires in organizations, populated areas and at facilities
67.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).
68.
Issuance of permission to open a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on issuing a permission to open a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Perpetual permit; the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 229. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1,2 of

Section 230. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
69.
Issuance of permission to establish an insurance (reinsurance) company, open a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) company that is a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on issuing permission to establish an insurance (reinsurance) company, open a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) company that is a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Perpetual permit; the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 231. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1,2 of

Section 232. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit
69-1
Issuance of a permit to open a branch of an insurance broker-non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) permission to open an insurance broker that is non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Perpetual permission; the tender procedure is not applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 233. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 234. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law when issuing a permit does not apply
70.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).
71.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
72.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
73.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
74.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
75.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
76.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
77.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
78.
Issuance of permits for storage of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use 
Permission for storage of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use 
The validity term of the permit is 3 years;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 235. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 236. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
79.
Issuance of a permit for transportation of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities
Permission for transportation of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities
The validity term of the permit for transportation shall be determined from the calculation of real time required for the delivery of weapons and ammunition to the destination, taking into account the combined traffic, but not more than one month;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 237. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 238. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
80.
Issuance of a permit for transportation of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to the individuals
Permission for transportation of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to the individuals
The validity term of the permit for transportation shall be determined from the calculation of real time required for the delivery of weapons and ammunition to the destination, taking into account the combined traffic, but not more than one month;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 239. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 240. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
81.
Issuance of a permit for storage of service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities
Permission for storage of service weapons and ammunition to it
The validity term of a permit is 5 years;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 241. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 242. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
82.
Issuance of a permit for storage, storage and carrying of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to individuals 
Permission for storage, storage and carrying of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to individuals
The validity term of a permit is 5 years;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 243. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 244. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
83.
Issuance of a permit for opening and operation of shooting ranges (shooting areas) and stands
Permission for opening and operation of shooting ranges (shooting areas) and stands
The validity term of a permit is 5 years;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 245. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 246. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply 
84.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
84-1.
Inclusion in the register of payment organizations registered with the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Notification on registration for granting permission (right) to provide payment services by the payment organization, established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Payments and Payment systems".
84-2.
Issuance of permission for the activities of the technical inspection operator
Permission for the activities of the technical inspection operator
Inalienable; unlimited permission 
85.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
86.
Accreditation of international agencies on adoption 
Decision on accreditation of international agencies on adoption 
The validity term of a permit is 1 year
86-1.
The accreditation of organizations assisting in the placement of orphans, children left without parental care in families of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Decision on the accreditation of organizations assisting in the placement of orphans, children left without parental care in families of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Inalienable;
the permit’s validity period is1 year
87.
Certification of organizations for the right to carry out works in the field of safety of hydraulic structures
Certification of organizations for the right to carry out works in the field of safety of hydraulic structures
87-1.
Issuance of certificates for subsidized air routes for the provision of services on the carriage of passengers, baggage, cargos and mail
Certificate for subsidized air routes for the provision of services on the carriage of passengers, baggage, cargos and mail 
Inalienable
87-2.
Issuance of certificates for international air routes to provide services for the carriage of passengers, baggage, cargos and mail
Certificate for international air route
Inalienable
87-3.
Admission of airlines to perform regular domestic commercial air transportation 
Mark in part "B" of special provision of the operator's certificate
Inalienable
87-4.
Accreditation of organizations engaged in review of nuclear safety and (or) radiation safety, and (or) nuclear security
Certificate of accreditation of the organization engaged in review of nuclear safety and (or) radiation safety, and (or) nuclear security
Validity term 
3 years
87-5.
Accreditation of expert organizations for audit in the field of fire safety 
Certificate of accreditation for audit in the field of fire safety 
87-6.
Issuance of a permit for the purchase of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities 
Permission for the purchase of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities
Inalienable;
the validity term is 12 months;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 247. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 248. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply
87-7.
Issuance of permission for the purchase of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use to legal entities 
Permission for the purchase of civilian pyrotechnic substances and products with their use to legal entities
Inalienable;
the validity term is 12 months;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 249. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 250. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a license shall not apply
87-8.
Issuance of a permit for the right to carry out activities of the credit bureau and the act on compliance of the credit bureau with the requirements to the credit Bureau for protection and ensuring security of the database of credit histories, used information systems and premises
Permission for the right to carry out activities of the credit bureau and the act on compliance of the credit bureau with the requirements to the credit bureau for protection and ensuring security of the database of credit histories, used information systems and premises 
Inalienable
87-9.
Is excluded by Law № 272-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).
87-10.
Issuance of a permit for attraction of money of shareholders
Permission of local executive bodies of regions, cities of republican significance, the capital city, districts, cities of regional significance
87-11.
Issuance of a permit for implementation (including other transfer) of cryptographic protection of information
Permission for implementation (including other transfer) of means of cryptographic protection of information
It is not required to obtain permission for implementation (including other transfer) of cryptographic protection of information to the persons having a license for the activity on development of means of cryptographic protection of information.
It is not required to obtain permission for implementation (including other transfer) of means of cryptographic protection of information (goods) included in the unified register of notifications posted on the official Internet resource of the Eurasian economic Commission
87-12
Issuance of permits to provide extraterritorial mediation services or technical assistance
Permits for the provision of extraterritorial mediation services or technical assistance
Class 1 – "permits issued for activities"
87-12.
Issuance of a permit for the issuance and circulation of secured digital assets
Permission for issuance and circulation of secured digital assets
Inalienable; validity period of 3 years; the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 251. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 252. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law when issuing a permit does not apply
87-13.
Issuance of permission for the issue and circulation of secured digital assets
Permission to issue and circulate secured digital assets
Inalienable; valid for 3 years;
the effect of the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 253. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 254. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a permit
87-14.
Issuance of permission to transfer imported specific goods to third parties on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as goods imported with the provision of warranty obligations
Permission to transfer imported specific goods to third parties on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as goods imported with the provision of warranty obligations
87-15.
Issuance of a permit to a virtual mobile operator
Permission for a virtual mobile operator
87-16
Issuance of a permit for the right to carry out the activities of an operator of an electronic trading platform for the sale of banking and microfinance assets
Permission to carry out activities of an electronic trading platform operator for the sale of banking and microfinance assets
Inalienable
87-17.
Accreditation of legal entities in the field of public-private partnership
Certificate of accreditation of legal entities in the field of public-private partnership
Perpetual permit; the competition procedure is not applicable; the effect of the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 255. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1 and 2 of

Section 256. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply to the issuance of the permit
87-18.
Issuance of a permit for the implementation of activities for the collection (procurement), storage, processing and sale by legal entities of scrap and waste of non-ferrous and ferrous metals
Permission to carry out activities related to the collection (procurement), storage, processing and sale of scrap and waste of non-ferrous and ferrous metals
Inalienable
87-19.
Issuance of a permit for the implementation of activities related to the installation, adjustment and maintenance of fire automatic systems
Permission to carry out activities on installation, adjustment and maintenance of fire automatic systems
Class 2 - "permissions, issued for the objects"
88.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
89.
Issuance of veterinary and sanitary conclusion for the objects of state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision
Veterinary and sanitary conclusion for the objects of state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision
90.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
91.
Issuance of a permit for storage and carrying of service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities 
Permission for storage and carrying of service weapon and ammunition to it to the employees of legal entities
The validity term of a permit is 5 years;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 257. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 258. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply 
92.
State ecological expertise
Conclusion of the state ecological expertise
93.
Issuance of the certificate of state registration of vehicles of urban rail transport
Certificate of state registration of vehicles of urban rail transport 
94.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
95.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
96.
Approval by the subsoil user of the procedure for ensuring fire protection of artificial islands, dams, structures and installations, as well as other facilities related to operations for exploration and (or) extraction of hydrocarbons in during their operation with the state control bodies
Letter-approval of the procedure for ensuring fire protection of artificial islands, dams, structures and installations, as well as other facilities related to operations for exploration and (or) extraction of hydrocarbons during their operation
96-1
Coordination of optimal methods for oil spill response at sea, inland waters and in the protection zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan based on the analysis of the total environmental benefit
Endorsement letter of best practices in oil spill response at sea, inland waters and in the protection zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan based on the analysis of the total environmental benefit
97.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
98.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
99.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
100.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
101.
Coordination of placement, design and construction, reconstruction of structures and other objects that affect the state of water bodies, as well as conditions for carrying out works related to construction activities, afforestation, subsoil use operations, well drilling, rehabilitation of surface water bodies, fisheries reclamation of water bodies, agricultural and other work on water bodies, in water protection zones and strips
Coordination of placement, design and construction, reconstruction of structures and other objects that affect the state of water bodies, as well as conditions for carrying out works related to construction activities, afforestation, subsoil use operations, well drilling, rehabilitation of surface water bodies, fisheries reclamation of water bodies, agricultural and other work on water bodies, in water protection zones and strips
102.
Assignment of registration numbers to the objects of production, carrying out cultivation of animals, preparation (slaughter), storage, processing and realization of animals, production and raw materials of animal origin, and also to the organizations for production, storage and realization of veterinary preparations, forages and feed additives
Confirmation of assignment of the registration number to the objects of production, carrying out cultivation of animals, preparation (slaughter), storage, processing and realization of animals, production and raw materials of animal origin, and also to the organizations for production, storage and realization of veterinary preparations, forages and feed additives
102-1
The assignment of an account number to facilities processing grain and products of its processing using technologies that ensure the deprivation of seeds and fruits of quarantine weed plants of viability, and (or) decontamination and labeling of wood packaging material
Confirmation of assignment of an account number
103.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
104.
Approval of projects for construction, expansion, reconstruction, modernization, conservation, liquidation of hazardous production facilities 
Letter of approval
105.
Issuance of permits for the use of technologies applied at hazardous production facilities, hazardous technical devices
Permission to use technologies applied at hazardous production facilities, hazardous technical devices
106.
Approval of the international transport vehicle for the carriage of goods under customs seals and stamps 
Certificate of approval of the international transport vehicle for the carriage of goods under customs seals and stamps 
107.
Approval of a road vehicle for the carriage of goods under customs seals and stamps (in the procedure of International road transport)
Certificate of approval of a road vehicle for the carriage of goods under customs seals and stamps
108.
Issuance of the conclusion on compliance with criminalistic requirements of the civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it
Conclusion on compliance with criminalistic requirements of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it
The effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 259. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 260. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
109.
Approval of design and estimate documentation of design and technical documentation for design, construction, repair, maintenance and management of roads in terms of road safety
A written response is sent, in which in case of refusal of approval, proposals and comments regarding ensuring of road safety shall be specified 
110.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
111.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
112.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
113.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
114.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
115.
State registration of a marine vessel in the bareboat charter registry
Certificate of temporary granting of the right to sail under the National Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a foreign marine vessel chartered under the terms of bareboat charter
116.
State registration of ships in the State ship registry
Certificate on the right of navigation of a marine vessel under the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan
117.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
118.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
119.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
120.
Issuance of a sanitary-epidemiological conclusion on compliance of a facility of high epidemic significance with regulatory legal acts in the sanitary-epidemiological welfare of the population
Sanitary-epidemiological conclusion on compliance of a facility of high epidemic significance with regulatory legal acts in the sanitary-epidemiological welfare of the population
Inalienable; perpetual permit
120-1. 
Issuance of a permit for handling pathogenic biological agents and Annexes thereto
Permit for handling pathogenic biological agents and its Annex
Inalienable; indefinite resolution 
121.
Registration of declaration of industrial safety of hazardous production facilities
Declaration of industrial safety of hazardous production facilities
122.
State registration of space objects and rights to them 
Certificate of state registration of space objects and rights to them
123.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
124.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
125.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
126.
Approval of land management projects for the formation of land plots 
The order on approval of land management projects on the formation of land plots
127.
Issuance of permission to use the land plot for survey works
The resolution on permission to use the land plot for survey works
128.
Issuance of permission on changing the purpose of the land plot 
Resolution on changing the purpose of the land plot 
129.
State registration of small vessels and rights to them
Ship's ticket
130.
State registration of leased inland navigation vessels and vessels navigating “river-sea” in the registry of leased foreign vessels 
Certificate of temporary granting of the right to sail under the National Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a foreign vessel
131.
State registration of ships of internal water navigation, ships navigating "river-sea" and rights to them in the State ship registry
Ship's certificate
132.
Issuance of a certificate on the minimum members of the vessel crew (Trade navigation) 
Certificate on the minimum members of the vessel crew 
133.
Issuance of a certificate on the minimum members of the vessel crew
Certificate on the minimum members of the vessel crew
134.
Registration of railway rolling stock
Certificates of state registration of railway rolling stock
135.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
136.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
137.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
138.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
139.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
140.
Issuance of architectural and planning task
Architectural and planning task
140-1.
Taking decision on construction (extension, technical upgrading, modernization, reconstruction, redevelopment, conversion, diversion, restoration and capital repair) of buildings, facilities, constructions, engineering and transport communications
The decision on construction (extension, technical upgrading, modernization, reconstruction, redevelopment, conversion, diversion, restoration and capital repair) of buildings, facilities, constructions, engineering and transport communications
141.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
142.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
143.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
144.
Issuance of the decision on conducting of complex of works on post-utilization of facilities (demolition of buildings) 
Decision of local executive bodies in the sphere of architectural, urban planning and construction activities
145.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
146.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
147.
Approval of design and construction of redundant (shunting) power lines and substations
Letter of approval for the design and construction of redundant (shunting) power lines and substations
147-1.
Approval for compliance with technical strengthening requirements
Letter of approval for compliance with the requirements of technical strengthening 
147-2.
Issuance of a conclusion on the compliance of the facility with fire safety requirements
Conclusion on the compliance of the facility with fire safety requirements
147-3.
Coordination of special technical conditions reflecting the specifics of fire protection of facilities for which there are no established standards and rules
A written response shall be sent, in which, in the event of a refusal to approve, proposals and comments shall be indicated regarding fire safety.
Class 3 - "one-time permits"
148.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
149.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
150.
Issuance of a veterinary certificate 
Veterinary certificate
151.
Issuance of a veterinary certificate valid within the Republic of Kazakhstan and for export on the moved (transported) objects
Veterinary certificate
152.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
153.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
154.
Issuance by the authorized body of permits for import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export and (or) re-export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of animal species subject to the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora
Permission to import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export and (or) re-export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of animal species subject to the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora
154-1
Issuance by the competent authority of permits for the import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export and/or re-export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of fish and other aquatic animals subject to the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora
Permission to import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export and/or re-export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan species of fish and other aquatic animals subject to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
155.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
156.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
157.
Issuance of permission for extraterritorial re-export
Permission for extraterritorial re-export
158.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.02.2017 № 49-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
159.
Issuance of a permit to cut down trees
Permission to cut down trees
160.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
161.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
162.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
163.
Issuance of a special permit to fly over the territory of prohibited zones and flight restriction zones after coordination with the security Service of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and national security bodies
Special permission to fly over the territory of prohibited zones and flight restriction zones after coordination with the security Service of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and national security bodies
164.
Issuance of a permit for flights in the border zone 
Permission for flights in the border zone 
165.
Is excluded by Law № 215-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
166.
Is excluded by Law № 215-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).
167.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
168.
Is excluded by Law № 215-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).
169.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
170.
Approval for the import of quarantine objects for research purposes, issued by the authorized state body
Letter of approval for the import of quarantine objects for research purposes
171.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
172.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
173.
Registration in the registry of State system of measurements of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the method of measurements performance, developed and certified in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States
Stamp imprint on the title pages of the measurement procedure with registration numbers
174.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
175.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
176.
Registration of notifications about the characteristics of goods (products) containing encryption (cryptographic) tools
Notifications about the characteristics of goods (products) containing encryption (cryptographic) tools
177.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
178.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
179.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
180.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
181.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
182.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
183.
Issuance of a special permit for the passage of heavy and (or) large vehicles 
Special permission for the passage of heavy and (or) large vehicles 
184.
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
185.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
186.
Issuance of the approval of the regime of navigation in the spawning period prohibited for fishing, as well as in the waters and (or) areas prohibited for fishing
Approval of the regime of navigation in the spawning period prohibited for fishing, as well as in the waters and (or) areas prohibited for fishing
187.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.04.2019 № 243-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
188.
The issuance of a permit for operating a vessel sailing under the flag of a foreign state in the Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea
A permit to operate a vessel sailing under the flag of a foreign state in the Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea
189.
Issuance of a permit for export, import and transit of the moved (transported) objects taking into account an assessment of an epizootic situation in the corresponding territory
Permission for export, import and transit of the moved (transported) objects taking into account an assessment of an epizootic situation in the corresponding territory
190.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
191.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).
192.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).
193.
Issuance of a permit for blasting operations
Permission for blasting operations
194.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
195.
Permission for import (export) of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors 
Permission for import (export) of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors 
196.
Permission for transit of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Permission for transit of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
197.
Issuance of a consent to transactions with the property of a natural monopoly entity, if the book value of the property in respect of which the transaction is made, recorded in the balance sheet at the beginning of the current year exceeds 0.05 percent of the book value of its assets in accordance with the balance sheet at the beginning of the current year
Letter of consent to transactions with the property of a natural monopoly entity, if the book value of the property in respect of which the transaction is made, recorded in the balance sheet at the beginning of the current year exceeds 0.05 percent of the book value of its assets in accordance with the balance sheet at the beginning of the current year
198.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017)
199.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
200.
Issuance of a permit for temporary export outside the Republic of Kazakhstan of documents of the National archival fund, which are in state ownership
Permission for temporary export outside the Republic of Kazakhstan of documents of the National archival fund, which are in state ownership
201.
Issuance of a certificate for the right of temporary export of cultural values 
Certificate for the right of temporary export of cultural values 
202.
Issuance of a film rental certificate 
Film rental certificate
203.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
204.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
205.
excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.12.2022 № 167-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication);
206.
Issuance of a permit for demolition or re-laying (transfer) of geodetic points
Permission for the demolition or re-laying (transfer) geodetic points
207.
Permission for transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the carriers of a foreign state
Universal travel permission
208.
Permission to enter (leave) the territory (from the territory) of a foreign state to the carriers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, carrying out regular automobile transportation of passengers and baggage in international traffic
Foreign permission of type "A" with a validity of one calendar year in the performance of regular automobile transportation of passengers and baggage
209.
Permission to travel on the territory of a foreign state to the carriers of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan (universal permit to enter, exit and transit, as well as transportation from the territory of another country to the territory of a third country)
Foreign permit
210.
Permission to travel on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the carriers of a foreign state in accordance with international treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan (universal permit to enter, exit and transit, as well as transportation from third countries to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan or from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to third countries)
Domestic permit 
211.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
212.
Approval of the authorized body of the member states of the Eurasian economic union in the field of communication on non-inclusion of goods to radioelectronic means and high-frequency devices subject to prohibitions and restrictions
Letter of approval of the authorized body of the member states of the Eurasian economic union in the field of communication on non-inclusion of goods to radioelectronic means and high-frequency devices subject to prohibitions and restrictions
213.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
214.
Issuance of a permit for international non-regular flights 
Permission for international non-regular flights
215.
Issue of consent to reorganization and liquidation of natural monopolies entities
Letter of consent to reorganization and liquidation of natural monopolies entities
216.
Issuance of the conclusion to legal entities on import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it
Conclusion on import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of civilian and service weapons and ammunition to it to legal entities
The validity term of a permit is not more than 1 year;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 261. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 262. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
217.
Issuance of the conclusion to individuals on import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of single copies of civilian weapons and ammunition to it
Conclusion on import to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of single copies of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to individuals
The validity term of a permit is not more than 1 year;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 263. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 264. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
218.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
219.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
220.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
221.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
222.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
223.
Issuance of a permit for the purchase of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to individuals
Permission for the purchase of civilian weapons and ammunition to it to individuals
The validity term of a permit is 3 months;
the effect of part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 265. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 266. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law at the issuance of a permit shall not apply
224.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
225.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
226.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
227.
Issuance of permission to conduct an interventional clinical trial of a pharmacological or medicinal product, medical device
Permission (order) to conduct an interventional clinical trial of a pharmacological or medicinal product, medical device
Inalienable; perpetual permit
228.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
229.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
230.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of six months after the day of its first official publication);
231.
Issuance of the final user certificate of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Final user certificate of the Republic of Kazakhstan
231-1.
Execution of the international import certificate of the Republic of Kazakhstan
International import certificate
of the Republic of Kazakhstan
232.
Issuance of a temporary certificate of the right for navigation of the vessel under the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan (issued by the foreign institution of the Republic of Kazakhstan)
Temporary certificate of the right for navigation of the vessel under the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan
233.
Issuance of a permit for the transit of specific goods
Permit for the transit of specific goods
234.
Issuance of a permit for import of hazardous waste into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Permission for import of hazardous waste into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
235.
Is excluded by Law № 269-V of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
236.
The issuance of permits for the import of flora objects, their parts and derivatives subject to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora into the Republic of Kazakhstan, their export and (or) re-export from the Republic of Kazakhstan by the administrative body
A permit to import flora objects, their parts and derivatives subject to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora into the Republic of Kazakhstan, their export and (or) re-export from the Republic of Kazakhstan 
237.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
238.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
239.
Issuance of a permit of the tax authority for breakdown of the integrity of the cash register seal
Permission of the tax authority for breakdown of the integrity of the cash register seal
240.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
241.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
242.
Issuance of permission to the bank or bank holding to establish or acquire a subsidiary or significant participation of the bank or bank holding in the capital of the organizations
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) to a bank or bank holding a permit to create or acquire a subsidiary or significant participation of a bank or bank holding in the capital of organizations
Perpetual authorization; the tender procedure shall not be applicable;
The first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 267. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 268. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a permit
243.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
244.
The issuance of consent to acquire the status of a major participant in a bank and (or) an insurance (reinsurance) company, and (or) an investment portfolio manager, and (or) a banking and (or) insurance holding company
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issue of consent to acquire:
1) the status of a major participant in a bank;
2) the status of a major participant in an insurance (reinsurance) company;
3) the status of a major participant in an investment portfolio manager;
4) the status of a bank holding company;
5) the status of an insurance holding company
Perpetual permission; the tender procedure is not applicable; part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 269. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 270. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
245.
Issuance of permission for voluntary liquidation of a bank, voluntary termination of activities of a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance of permission for voluntary liquidation of banks, voluntary termination of the activities of branches of non-resident banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan and official permission of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 271. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 272. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
246.
The issuance of a permit for voluntary reorganization of a bank (bank holding company)
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations on the issuance of a permit for voluntary reorganization of a bank (bank holding company) and official permit of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 273. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 274. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
246-1.
Issuance of permission for voluntary reorganization of a microfinance organization in the form of conversion into a bank
Authorization of a microfinance organization for voluntary reorganization in the form of conversion into a bank
The permit shall be valid for 1 year.
The period shall be added in cases stipulated by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The tender procedure shall not be applicable; the first part of paragraph 3 of

Section 275. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 276. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law shall not apply when issuing a permit
247.
Is excluded by Law № 272-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced from 02.01.2020).
248.
The issuance of a permit for significant participation of an insurance (reinsurance) company and (or) an insurance holding company in the capital of organizations
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) a permit for significant participation of an insurance company
Perpetual permission; the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 277. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 278. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
249.
The issuance of a permit for the creation or acquisition of a subsidiary by an insurance (reinsurance) company and (or) an insurance holding company
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) a permit for the creation or acquisition of a subsidiary by an insurance (reinsurance) company and (or) an insurance holding company
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 279. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 280. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit
250.
The issuance of a permit for voluntary reorganization of an insurance (reinsurance) company and an insurance holding company
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) a permit for voluntary reorganization of an insurance (reinsurance) company (insurance holding company)
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 281. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1,2 of

Section 282. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
251.
Issuance of permission for voluntary liquidation of an insurance (reinsurance) company, voluntary termination of activities of a branch of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) company of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance (refusal to issue) a permit for voluntary liquidation of an insurance (reinsurance) company, voluntary termination of the activities of a branch of non-resident insurance (reinsurance) company of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 283. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
252.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.04.2015 № 311-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
253.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
254.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.04.2015 № 311-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
255.
Is excluded by Law № 272-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 25.11.2019 (shall be enforced from 02.01.2020).
256.
The issuance of a permit for the reorganization of a voluntary accumulative pension fund
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issue of a permit for the reorganization of the voluntary accumulative pension fund
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 284. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 285. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit
257.
The issuance of a permit for voluntary liquidation of a voluntary accumulative pension fund
Resolution of the Board of the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations on the issuance of a permit for voluntary liquidation of a voluntary accumulative pension fund
Perpetual permission;
the tender procedure is not applicable;
part one of paragraph 3 of

Section 286. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
and paragraphs 1, 2 of

Section 287. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
of this Law do not apply when issuing the permit 
257-1.
Issuance of the conclusion (permit document) on import, export and transit of certain goods included in the unified list of goods to which measures of non-tariff regulation in trade with third countries are applied
Conclusion (permit document) on import, export and transit of certain goods included in the unified list of goods to which measures of non-tariff regulation in trade with third countries are applied, approved by the decision of the Eurasian economic commission dated August 16, 2012 № 134 and April 21, 2015 № 30
Class 4 — "permits issued for the activities with limited resources or using quotas"
258.
Organization of regular international automobile transportation of passengers and baggage
Permission for carrying out regular international automobile transportation of passengers and baggage 
259.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
260.
Issuance of the certificate on the right to service the routes of regular intra-republican — automobile transportations 
Certificate for the right to service the routes of regular intra-republican – automobile transportations
261.
Issuance of a permit to use the animal world
Permission to use the animal world
261-1
Permission for use of fish resources and other aquatic animals
Permission to use fish resources and other aquatic animals
262.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
263.
Certificate issued in accordance with the Agreement on international carriage of perishable foodstuffs and on special vehicle for such carriages
Certificate issued in accordance with the Agreement on international carriage of perishable foodstuffs and on special vehicles for such carriages
264.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
265.
Is excluded by Law № 268-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).
266.
Is excluded by Law № 268-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).
267.
Withdrawal animal species, the number of which is subject to regulation 
Permission for withdrawal of animals’ species, the number of which is subject to regulation 
267-1
Withdrawal of regulated species of fish and other aquatic animals
Permission for the withdrawal of species of fish and other aquatic animals, the number of which shall be subject to regulation
268.
Issuance of the certificate of origin of the catch 
Certificate of origin of the catch 
269.
Allocation of numbering resource and allocation of numbers, as well as their withdrawal
The order on allocation of numbers, and also their withdrawal
270.
Issuance of a permit for underground water exploration
Permission for underground water exploration 
271.
Decision-making on provision of land plots for placement of objects of road service in roadside strips or objects outside of them, when access to them is required
Resolution on the provision of a land plot 
272.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
273.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
274.
Granting of the right to a land plot, except for granting the land plots for placement of objects of road service in roadside strips or objects outside of them when access to them is required
Resolution on the provision of a land plot
275.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
276.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
277.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
278.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
279.
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (the order of enforcement see Art. 2).
280.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
281.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
282.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
283.
Issuance of a permit for creation and placement of off-shore facilities
Permission for creation and placement of off-shore facilities
284.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
285.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication)
286.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication)
287.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2017 № 126-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication)
288.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
289.
Issuance of a permit for flaring of raw gas
Permission for flaring of raw gas
290.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
291.
Issuance of a permit for the use of radio frequency spectrum of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Permission for the use of radio frequency spectrum of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
292.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
293.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
294.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
295.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
296.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
297.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
298.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
299.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
300.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
301.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
302.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
303.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
304.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
305.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
306.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
307.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
308.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
309.
Approval of the project for development of hydrocarbons deposits 
A letter- decision on approving the project for development of hydrocarbon deposits
310.
Issuance of the conclusion on the possibility (impossibility) and economic expediency (inexpediency) of industrial extraction of precious metals from commodities in the Republic of Kazakhstan
Conclusion on the possibility (impossibility) and economic expediency (inexpediency) of industrial extraction of precious metals from commodities in the Republic of Kazakhstan
311.
Issuance of a conclusion on economic inexpediency or impossibility of processing of commodities, containing precious metals on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Conclusion on economic inexpediency or impossibility of processing of commodities, containing precious metals on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
312.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.06.2017 № 73-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
313.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
314
Issuance of a forestry card 
Forestry card 
315.
Issuance of a forest felling license 
Forest felling license
316.
Issuance of a permit for the production of introduction, reintroduction and hybridization of animals
Permission for the production of introduction, reintroduction and hybridization of animals
316-1.
The accreditation of republican associations of public associations of hunters and hunting entities, as well as public associations of fishermen and fisheries
Certificate of accreditation of republican associations of public associations of hunters and hunting entities;
Certificate of accreditation of republican associations of public associations of fishermen and fisheries
316-2
Permission for the withdrawal of species of fish and other aquatic animals, the number of which is subject to regulation
Permission for the introduction, reintroduction and hybridization of fish and other aquatic animals
317.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
318.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
319.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
320.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
321.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
322.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
323.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
324.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
325.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
326.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
327.
Permission for special water use
Permission for special water use
328.
Issuance of a permit for attracting foreign labor force for implementation of labor activities on the territory of corresponding administrative-territorial unit
Permission for attracting foreign labor force for implementation of labor activities on the territory of corresponding administrative-territorial unit
329.
Extension of a permit for attracting foreign labor force to the Republic of Kazakhstan 
The decision to extend the permission for attracting foreign labor force to the Republic of Kazakhstan
330.
Reissuance of a previously issued permit for attracting a foreign employee to another foreign employee
The decision on reissuance of a previously issued permit for attracting a foreign employee to another foreign employee
331.
Issuance of a certificate on the conformity of qualification for self-employment to a foreign employee
Certificate to a foreign employee on the conformity of qualification for self-employment
332.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 421-IV (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017)
333.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
334.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
334-1.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
" Class 5 - "permits issued to individuals for professional activities"
335.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
336.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
337.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
338.
Assigning of qualification of a forensic expert
The qualification certificate of a forensic expert for the right of production of certain type of judicial examination
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
339.
Attestation of a forensic expert
Conclusion of the attestation commission
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
340.
Issuance of a qualification certificate of a specialist on customs declaration 
Certificate of a specialist on customs declaration 
The validity term of a permit is 2 years 
341.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
342.
Qualification test of knowledge of the rules of technical operation and safety rules of the heads, specialists of organizations, performing production, transfer of electric and thermal energy and their purchase for the purpose of power supply, for control of technical condition and safety of operation of electro-and power installations
Protocol and certificate of qualification test of knowledge
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
343.
Attestation of officers of the ships 
Certificate of attestation for the officers of the ships
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
344.
Issuance of professional diploma 
Professional diploma
344-1.
Issuance of professional diploma confirmation
Confirmation of professional diploma
344-2.
Issuance of preferential permission 
Preferential permission
345.
Certification of skippers for the right to operate a self-propelled small vessel
Certificate for the right to operate a self-propelled small vessel
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
346.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
347.
Certification of specialists in the field of architectural, town planning and construction activities
Certificate of a specialist in the field of architectural, town planning and construction activities
Tender or peer review procedure applicable
347-1.
As excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.01.2026 № 254-VIII (for the procedure for entry into force, see

Section 288. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
).
347-2.
Accreditation of engineering companies for management construction projects to perform the functions of the customer and implementation of construction projects
Accreditation certificate
The validity term of a permit is 2 years;
the procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
347-3.
Accreditation of legal entities carrying out technical supervision, including on highways and technical inspection of the reliability and stability of buildings and structures
Accreditation certificate
The validity term of a permit is 2 years;
the procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
347-4
Accreditation of expert organizations carrying out expert work on the implementation of comprehensive non-departmental expertise of projects
Accreditation Certificate
The permit shall be recognized as valid for 2 years; tender or peer review procedure applicable
348.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
349.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
350.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-IV (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017).
351.
Attestation of forensic, forensic psychiatric, forensic narcological experts
A certificate of attestation
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
352.
Issuance of a health professional certificate for admission to clinical practice or admission to pharmaceutical practice, or admission to activities in the field of sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population
Healthcare specialist certificate
Inalienable; indefinite resolution
353.
Assignment of qualification for the right of production of a certain type of forensic medical, forensic psychiatric and forensic narcological examinations
Qualification certificate for the right of production a certain type of forensic examination
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
354.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
355.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
356.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
357.
Issuance of a certificate of an audit expert in technical regulation (conformity validation)
Certificate of an audit expert in technical regulation (conformity validation)
357-1
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.05.2025 № 188-VIII (shall come into effect on 01.01.2026).
358.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
359.
Conducting qualification examination of persons applying for the right to carry out the activities of the administrator (temporary administrator, rehabilitation, temporary and bankrupt managers)
Decision on passing the qualification exam for the right to carry out the activities of the administrator (temporary administrator, rehabilitation, temporary and bankrupt managers)
360.
Conducting attestation of the persons applying for the activity of a private bailiff
Decision on passing attestation by the persons applying for the activity of a private bailiff
361.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
362.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
363.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
364.
Проведение аттестации лиц, претендующих на занятие адвокатской деятельностью 
Certification of persons applying for legal practice 
engage in notarial activities
Решение о прохождении аттестации лицами, претендующими на занятие адвокатской деятельностью 
Decision on certification by persons applying for the practice of law 
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
365.
Attestation of persons applying for the right to engage in notarial activities
Decision on passing attestation by the persons applying for the right to engage in notarial activities
The procedure of competition or peer review is applicable
366.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
367.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
368.
Issuance of a permit to a labor immigrant 
Permission to a labor immigrant 
369.
Extension of a permit to a labor immigrant 
Decision on extension of permission to a labor immigrant
369-1.
Attestation of personnel employed at the objects of atomic energy use
Certificate of attestation of the personnel employed at the objects of atomic energy use
The validity term is 3 years
369-2
Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.06.2022 № 130-VII (shall be enforced after twelve months from the date of adoption of national standards in the field of energy saving and energy efficiency).
Class 6 - "permits issued for products"
370.
Issuance of a conclusion on technical study regarding the classification of goods to the means of cryptographic protection of information and special technical means intended for carrying out operational search actions 
Conclusion on technical study regarding the classification of goods to the means of cryptographic protection of information and special technical means intended for carrying out operational search actions
371.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).
372.
Issuance of a certificate on approval of the type of measuring instruments 
Certificate of approval of the type of measuring instruments 
373.
Issuance of a certificate on metrological attestation of measuring instruments
Certificate on metrological attestation of measuring instruments
374.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
375.
Issuance of registration certificate for feed additives with their state registration
Registration certificate for feed additives with their state registration
376.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
377.
Issuance of registration certificate for veterinary drugs
Registration certificate for veterinary drugs
378.
State registration of products
Certificate of state registration of products
Inalienable;
Perpetual permission;
379.
State registration, re-registration, making changes in the registration dossier of the medicinal product and medical device
Registration certificate for medicinal product and medical device
Inalienable; perpetual permission
380.
Issuance of a certificate of registration of chemical products 
Certificate of registration of chemical products
381.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
382.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
383.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
384.
Issuance of a certificate on recognition of approval of the type of measuring instruments 
Certificate on recognition of approval of the type of measuring instruments 
385.
Admission to the use of a standard sample of foreign issue 
Issuance of a certificate on application of the standard sample of foreign issue
386.
Approval of the state standard sample
Certificate of approval of the state standard sample
387.
Issuance of permits for permanent use of explosives and products based on them
Permission for permanent use of explosives and products based on them
388.
Issuance of a phytosanitary certificate 
Phytosanitary certificate 
389.
State registration of pesticides
A pesticide registration certificate
390.
Issuance of veterinary and sanitary conclusion on the products of state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision
Veterinary and sanitary conclusion on the products of state veterinary and sanitary control and supervision
391.
Issuance of a quarantine certificate 
Quarantine certificate
392.
Issuance of an opinion on the identification of specific goods
Conclusion on identification of specific goods
393.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
394.
Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication).
ANNEX 3
to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan
"On Permissions and Notifications"
dated May 16, 2014 № 202-V LRK 
Appendix 3 provides for amendments by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (shall enter into force from 01.01.2027). 
A LIST of notifications
Footnote. Annex 3 as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 13.01.2015 № 276-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.08.2015 № 343-V (shall be enforced from 20.04.2016); dated 12.11.2015 № 391-V (shall be enforced upon six months after its first official publication); dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 14.01.2016 № 445-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.03.2016 № 479-V (the order of enforcement see

Section 289. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Permissions and Notifications.
); dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 208-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 215-VІ as of 08.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art. 2); № 284-VІ as of 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 289-VІ as of 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2021); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 01.04.2021 № 26-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 18.11.2021 № 73-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2022 № 130-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 21.12.2022 № 167-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2023 № 184-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023); dated 29.06.2023 № 12-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 121-VIII (shall ether into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.10.2024 № 130-VIII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 13.01.2025 № 157-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.07.2025 № 207-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.09.2025 № 219-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 26.12.2025 № 242-VIII (shall enter into force dated 01.04.2026).
1. Notification on the beginning or termination on conducting marine scientific research activities 
2. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities related to the wholesale supply of petroleum products 
3. Notification on the beginning of construction and installation works 
4. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activity on installation, adjustment and maintenance of security alarm systems 
5. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities in the field of livestock breeding 
6. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities for examination of varietal and sowing qualities of seeds 
7. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities for testing of varietal crops of agricultural plants
8. Notification of the beginning or termination of activities for the sale, lease or trust management of electric power facilities, thermal energy sources, heating networks of the centralized heat supply system and (or) their individual parts 
9. Notification about the creation of a zoological collection
10. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activities for production of geodetic works 
11. Notice on the beginning or termination of the activities for production of cartographic works 
11-1. Notice of commencement or termination of aerial survey operations
12. excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2024 № 148-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
12-1. Notification of the beginning or termination of activities in the field of additional education for children, which shall not include the provision of educational and recreational services to minors
13. Notification on the applicable tax regime 
14. Notification on the beginning or termination of the exchange office of the authorized bank 
15. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities as a taxi carrier 
16. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activity on production and issuance of electronic cards to electronic (digital) tachographs
17. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activities of training courses for navigators of small vessels 
18. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities for special training of drivers of vehicles engaged in transportation of dangerous goods in international and domestic communications 
19. Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017). 
20. Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.05.2015 № 312-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017). 
20-1. Notification on the beginning or termination of the provision of services technologically related to regulated services (goods, works) by natural monopoly entities.
21. Notification on the beginning or termination of hygienic training activities for the decreed population groups 
22. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities on wholesale sale of medical devices
23. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
24. Notification on the beginning or termination of the retail sale of medical devices
25. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
26. Notification on the beginning or termination of entrepreneurial activities in the field of veterinary medicine 
27. Notification on the beginning or termination of installation and maintenance of tachographs 
28. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities of foreign and international organizations on the issuance of documents in the field of confirmation of conformity of foreign sample in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
29. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2021 № 26-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
30. Notification on the beginning and termination of the activity (operation) of the object of minor epidemic significance
31. Notification of commencement or termination of activities in conducting a sanitary-epidemiological audit
32. Notification of commencement or termination of travel agency operations
33. Notification of commencement or termination of the activity of a guide, tour guide, tourism instructor operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs
33-1. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities on import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from countries outside the Eurasian economic union and export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to these countries of precious metals and precious stones, jewelry and other products made of precious metals and precious stones, commodities containing precious metals.
34. Notification on the beginning or termination of activity on training (retraining) and professional development of maritime transport specialists
35. Notification of the commencement or termination of activities of a person subject to financial monitoring under the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On Combating Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing of Terrorism and Financing of the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction”.
36. Notification on the beginning or termination of the self-regulatory organization.
37. Notification on the beginning or termination of activity on rendering communication services.
38. Notification on the beginning of activities for distribution of periodicals or Internet resources posting erotic materials.
39. Notification on the beginning of activity as an individual entrepreneur
40. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities as a taxpayer engaged in certain types of activities
41. Notification on suspension of submission of the tax reporting or on refusal to suspend submission of the tax reporting
42. Notification on the beginning or termination of activities for artificial breeding of animals which species are included in Annexes I and II of the Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora
42-1. Notification of harvesting (collection) of wild plants for pharmaceutical, food and technical needs
42-2. Notification of introduction and (or) acclimatization of plants
42-3. Notification of the export from the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and import into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of plant genetic resources in accordance with the obligations under the Nagoya protocol regulating access to genetic resources and the fair and equal sharing of benefits from their application to the Convention on biological diversity, to which the Republic of Kazakhstan is a party
43. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activities of professional associations for training drivers of vehicles
43-1. Notification of the beginning or termination of the activities of educational organizations for training of drivers of vehicles
44. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
44-1. Notification on the beginning or termination of non-interventional clinical trial activities
45. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiration of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
46. Notification on the beginning or termination of the activities of bus stations, bus stations and passengers service points
47. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.10.2024 № 130-VIII (shall be enforced six months after the day of its first official publication). 
48. Notification on the beginning or termination of energy expertise activities
49. Notice of commencement or termination of energy audit and/or retraining and/or advanced training of personnel engaged in energy saving and energy efficiency improvement activities
50. Is excluded by Law № 289-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
51. Notification by a natural monopoly entity about the implementation of activities not related to regulated services.
52. Notification on the beginning or termination of the administrator's activity (temporary administrator, rehabilitation, temporary and bankrupt managers)
53. Notification about approval of financial products by a financial institution, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a branch of an insurance (reinsurance) company that is a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
54. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (effective from 01.01.2021). 
55. Notification on beginning or termination of notarial activity.
56. Notification on beginning or termination of operation of radio electronic means and (or) high-frequency devices.
57. Notification about the placement of outdoor (visual) advertising in open space outside the premises in populated localities, in the right-of-way of public highways, in the open space outside the premises outside of populated localities and outside the right-of-way of public highways.
58. Notification about the beginning or termination of the activity on issuing a veterinary certificate by veterinarians of production control units to determine the compliance of animals, products and raw materials of animal origin with veterinary standards.
59. Notification of commencement or termination of meteorological monitoring activities.
60. Notification of commencement or termination of activities in collection, sorting and (or) transportation of waste, recovery and (or) destruction of non-hazardous waste.
61. Declaration on the impact on the environment;
62. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.02.2023 № 194-VII (shall be enforced from 01.04.2023). 
63. Notification of sign placement.
65. Notification of commencement or termination of management activities of a condominium property.
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
