Kazakhstan source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Category: Core codes
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/K1400000226
Note: Official English reference text from Adilet.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Criminal legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Criminal legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan consists of this Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Other Laws, providing criminal responsibility shall subject to application only after their inclusion in this Code.
2. This Code is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and generally recognized principles and norms of the international law. The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan has supreme legal force and direct effect throughout the territory of the Republic. In case of contradictions between the norms of this Code and the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the provisions of the Constitution shall apply. The norms of this Code, recognized as unconstitutional, including those infringing on the rights and freedoms of a person and citizen enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall lose their legal force and shall not be applied. Regulatory resolutions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan are an integral part of the penal legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. International treaties ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the priority before this Code. The procedure and conditions of action on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of international treaties, of which the Republic of Kazakhstan is a party, shall be determined by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Amendments and/or additions to this Code shall be introduced by a law that does not provide for amendments and/or additions to other legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the exception of draft laws that:
1) are related to amendments and/or additions to the Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Penal Execution Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Infractions;
2) eliminate criminal liability;
3) are developed as part of the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 27.12.2018 № 205-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 3. Original section/article: 2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Objectives of the Penal Code
1. Objectives of this Code shall be:
protection of rights, freedoms and legal interests of the person and of the citizen, property, rights and legal interests of organizations, public order and security, environment, constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, protected by the Law of societal interests and state from socially-dangerous infringement, protection of peace and human security, as well as prevention of criminal infractions.
2. To attain these objectives this Code shall establish the basis of criminal responsibility, determine which of the actions, dangerous for the individual, society and the state shall be criminal infractions, in other words crimes or criminal offences, provide for punishment and other measures of criminal and legal effect for their commission.
Footnote. Article as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 4. Original section/article: 3. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Explanation of some concepts, contained in this Code
The concepts, contained in this Code, shall have the following meanings, if there are no special instructions in the Law:
1) exploitation of a person - the use by the guilty person of forced labor, prostitution by another person or other sexual services provided by him, forcing a person to beg, commit illegal activities or other actions related to the exercise by the guilty person of some or all of the powers of the owner with respect to the person.
Notes. The use of forced labor by the guilty person shall be understood to mean any work or service required from a person by the use of violence or the threat of its use or the threat of any punishment, for the performance of which this person has not voluntarily offered his services, with the exception of cases stipulated by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The use by the guilty person of prostitution by another person or other sexual services provided by him shall be understood to mean forcing a person to engage in prostitution or to provide other services of a sexual nature for the purpose of appropriating the income received or a part thereof, as well as without pursuing this goal by the guilty person.
Coercion of a person to engage in begging shall be understood to mean a coercion to commit an antisocial act related to begging other persons for money and (or) other property.
Coercion by a guilty person to commit an unlawful activity shall mean coercion of a person to commit an offense for the purpose of extracting income or property benefits.
1-1) crimes related to human trafficking – acts stipulated by articles 116, 125 (paragraph 2) Part three), 126 (paragraph 2) parts three), 128, 134, 135, 308 and 309 of this Code;
2) significant damage and significant amount – in Articles: 198 and 199 – the amount of damage or the value of the rights for the use of intellectual property objects or the value of copies of copyright objects and (or) related rights or goods containing inventions, utility models, industrial designs, selection achievements or topographies of integrated circuits, two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 202 – damage in an amount one hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 214 – – the quantity of goods, whose value exceeds two thousand monthly calculation indices; 217-1 – damage in an amount two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 232-1 – the amount of material remuneration and/or property benefits, two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 233 – damage caused in an amount one thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 233-1 – the cost of oil or petroleum products two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 269-1 – damage in an amount two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 301-1 – the amount of goods the cost of which exceeds the monthly calculations index fifty times; 325, 326, 328, 334, 335, 337 and 342 – cost expression of expenses required to eliminate environmental damage or restore consumer properties of natural resources, in an amount exceeding one hundred monthly calculation indices; 340 – cost expression of expenses, to eliminate environmental damage or restore consumer properties of natural resources, in an amount exceeding fifty monthly calculation indices; in other articles - the amount of damage two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 366 and 367 – in other articles - the amount of damage two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index;
3) especially large damage and especially large amount – in articles: 188, 188-1, 191, 192 and 295-1 – the value of property or the amount of damage, two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 189, 190, 194, 195, 202, 204, 233-1 and 425 – the value of the property or the amount of damage, four thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 214, 214-1, 214-2 and 301-1 - income, the amount of which exceeds twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 216 – damage caused to a citizen in an amount five thousand times higher than the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in the amount exceeding fifty thousand monthly calculation indice; 217 – income, the amount of which exceeds five thousand monthly calculation indices; 218-1 – money, property rights and (or) other property in the amount exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 229, 230 – damage in the amount twenty thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 234 – the value of the displaced goods exceeding thirty thousand monthly calculation indices; 235-1 – the amount of illegally exported, forwarded or transferred currency values exceeding one hundred thousand monthly calculation indices; 245 – the amount of unreceived payments to the budget exceeding seventy-five thousand monthly calculation indices for the audited period, provided that the amount of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget accrued based on the results of a tax audit for one calendar year from the audited period exceeds ten percent of the amount of all taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, calculated by the taxpayer for this calendar year; 253 – the amount of money, the value of securities, other property or property benefits exceeding two thousand monthly calculation indices; 307 – income, the amount of which exceeds five thousand monthly calculation indices; 324, 325, 326, 328, 329, 330, 332, 333, 334, 337, 339, 342 and 343 – cost expression of expenses, necessary to eliminate environmental damage or restore the consumer properties of natural resources in an amount exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 365 – damage caused to a citizen in an amount two thousand times higher than the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount ten thousand times higher than the monthly calculation index; 366 and 367 – the amount of money, the value of securities, other property or property benefits exceeding of ten thousand monthly calculation indices; в иных статьях – in other articles – the amount of damage in an amount four thousand times higher than the monthly calculation index;
4) grave consequences – the following consequences in the cases where they are not specified as a sign of a component element of criminal infraction, provided by this Code:
death of a person; the death of two or more persons; suicide of injured person (injured person) or his (her) close relative(s); infliction of grievous harm to health, infliction of grievous harm to health to two or more persons; mass disease, infection, exposure to radiation or poisoning people; aggravation of people’s health and environment; beginning of unintended pregnancy; beginning technogenic or ecological disaster, environmental emergency; infliction of heavy or specially heavy damage; failure of execution of tasks, set by high command; endangering of the state, disaster or accident; long-run decline of the combat readiness level and combat capability of military units and elements; failure of performance of combat task; bringing out of operation of military equipment; other consequences, testifying the gravity of the damage caused;
5) administrative-and-household functions - the right to manage and disposition of property, being on the books of organization, granted in the manner established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) military criminal offenses - acts stipulated by Chapter 18 of this Code, directed against the established order of military service, committed by military servicemen;
7) a gang - organized group, pursuing the objective of attack against citizen or organization with making use or threat of use of weapons or materials, used as weapons; 
8) other mechanical vehicles – tractors, motorcycles, mopeds, self-propelled machines (excavators, cranes, graders, rollers); 
9) a representative of authority - a person who is in the state service, vested as prescribed by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan with administrative powers in relation to persons who are not subordinated to him, including a serviceman of a law enforcement or special state body, a serviceman of a military police body, a serviceman, engaged in maintaining public order;
10) insignificant size – in

Section 5. Original section/article: 187. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- cost of property, belonging to the organization, not exceeding ten monthly calculation indices, or property, belonging to the individual, not exceeding the two monthly calculation indices; 
11) serious harm to health - harm to human health, dangerous to his life, or other harm to health, resulting in: loss of vision, speech, hearing or any organ; loss of body functions; indelible disfigurement of the face; a health disorder associated with a significant permanent loss of general ability to work by at least one third; complete loss of professional ability to work; abortion; mental, behavioral disorder (disease), including those associated with the use of psychoactive substances;
12) average-gravity harm to health – harm to human health, no danger to his (her) life, caused a long-term impairment of health (for the term of more than twenty-one days) or significant stable loss of general capacity for work (less than one-third);
13) light harm to health – a harm to human health, resulted a short term impairment of health (for the term of not more than twenty-one days) or significant stable loss of general capacity for work (less than one-tenth);
14) substantial harm – the following consequence’s in the cases where they are not specified as a sign of a component element of a criminal infraction, provided by this Code:
infringement of constitutional rights and freedoms of individuals and citizens, rights and legitimate interests of organizations, interests of society and the state protected by law; causing significant damage; creating a difficult life situation for the injured person; disruption of the normal work of organizations or state bodies; disruption of important military activities or a temporary reduction in the combat readiness and combat capability of military units and subunits; untimely detection or repulsion of attacks by armed groups or individual armed persons, land, air, or sea military or combat equipment, allowing unhindered illegal crossing of the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan by persons and vehicles, movement of contraband goods, condoning actions that damage border facilities and technical means of border protection; other consequences, testifying the essentiality of caused harm;
15) contractor – a person, specially recruited for participation in the armed conflict, military actions or other violent acts, directed to the toppling or subversion of constitutional order or violation of territorial integrity of the state, acting in order to obtain material compensation or other personal benefit, which is not a citizen of a party, being in conflict, or the state, against of which the specified actions are directed, not included in the military personnel of a party, being in conflict, not sent by another state for performance of official duties as a person, included in the armed forces posture;
16) a person holding a responsible public position - a person holding a position, which is established by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, constitutional and other laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the direct performance of the functions of the state and the powers of state bodies, including a deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan , a judge, the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as a person who, under the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state service, holds a political public position or an administrative public position of corps "A";
17) stealing – illegal uncompensated seizure and (or) conversion of other people's property for the benefit of guilty person or other persons, committed with a mercenary motive, caused a damage to the possessor or other owner of this property;
18) illegal paramilitary unit – formation (association, detached unit, brigade or other group, consisting of three or more people), not provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, having organizational structure of paramilitary type, having a unity of command, combat capability, strict discipline;
18-1) crimes involving violence against minors, – acts provided for in paragraph 14) of part two, part three of

Section 6. Original section/article: 105. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, paragraph 11) of part two and part three of

Section 7. Original section/article: 106. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in case of a crime committed against a minor), paragraph 8) of part two статьи 107, paragraph 8) of part two статьи 108-1, paragraph 1) of part two of

Section 8. Original section/article: 110. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of a crime committed against a minor), paragraph 2) of part two and part three of

Section 9. Original section/article: 116. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of a crime committed against a minor), parts two, three and four статьи 119 (in the case of crimes committed against a minor), paragraph 5) of part two and part three of

Section 10. Original section/article: 125. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of a crime committed against a minor), paragraph 2) of part two and part three of

Section 11. Original section/article: 125-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of a crime committed against a minor), paragraph 5) of part two and part three of

Section 12. Original section/article: 126. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of a crime committed against a minor), paragraph 3) of part two of

Section 13. Original section/article: 133. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(in the case of committing a crime involving violence), Articles 135, 140 and 146 (in the case of a crime committed against a minor) of this Code;
19) a person performing managerial functions in a commercial or other organization - a person who permanently, temporarily or by special authority performs organizational and administrative or administrative and economic duties in an organization that is not a state body, local government, state organization or entity of the quasi-public sector;
20) transport – railway, automobile, sea, inland water transport, as well as sea and river small size vessel, air, urban electric, as well as underground, as well as major pipeline transport, being in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
20-1) other grave harm to the vital interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan – harm caused as a result of committing actions provided for by part two of

Section 14. Original section/article: 164. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, Articles 168, 169, 175, part three of

Section 15. Original section/article: 455. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
21) leader of public association – a head of public association, as well as other participant of public association, capable through his (her) influence and authority singly provide control action on activity of this public association;
22) coordination of criminal actions – coordination between organized groups (criminal organizations) in order of jointly commission of crimes (creating sustainable relationships between the heads and other participants of organized groups (criminal organizations), development of plans, conditions for commission of crimes, as well as division of criminal scopes of influence, incomes from criminal activity);
23) criminal society – an association of two or more criminal organizations, colluded for joint commission of one or more criminal infractions, as well as creating conditions for independent commission of one or more criminal infractions by any of these criminal organizations;
24) criminal group – organized group, criminal organization, criminal society, transnational organized group, transnational criminal organization, transnational criminal society, terrorist group, extremist group, gang, illegal paramilitary unit;
25) criminal organization – an organized group, participants of which are distributed on organizationally, functionally and (or) territorially detached groups (structural subdivisions);
26) civil servant – a person, permanently, temporary or by special authority exercising functions of representative of authority or performing organizational/management or administrative-and-household functions in the state bodies, local government bodies, as well as in Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, other military forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
26-1) compulsory payment - obligation of the person who has committed a criminal infraction on payment of a fixed monetary amount levied on the guilty verdict of the court in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the victims compensation Fund; 29) corruption crimes – actions provided for by Articles 189 (paragraph 2) of part three), 190 (paragraph 2) of part three), 216 (paragraph 4) of part two), 217 (paragraph 3) of part three), 218 (paragraph 1) of part three), 234 (paragraph 1) of part three), 249 (paragraph 2) of part three), 307 (paragraph 3) of part three), 361, 362 (paragraph 3) of part four), 364, 365, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 450, 451 (paragraph 2) of part two) and 452 of this Code;
27) a person authorized to perform state functions - a person who is in the state service, a deputy of maslikhat, a person temporarily performing the duties stipulated by the public position, before being appointed to state service, as well as a person temporarily appointed to a military position of a military serviceman under a contract of an officer or temporarily performing his duties;
28) a person equated to persons authorized to perform state functions - a person elected to local government bodies; a citizen registered in the manner prescribed by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a candidate for the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan or maslikhats, akims of districts, cities of regional significance, cities of district significance, settlements, villages, rural districts, as well as members of an elected local government body; an employee permanently or temporarily employed by a local government body, whose remuneration is made from the state budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan; a person performing managerial functions in a state organization or an entity of the quasi-public sector, as well as a person authorized to make decisions on the organization and conduct of procurement, including public procurement, or responsible for the selection and implementation of projects financed from the state budget and the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, holding a position not lower than the head of an independent structural unit in the said organizations; employees of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its departments; employees of an authorized organization in the field of civil aviation, acting in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the use of the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan and aviation activities; employees of the authorized body for regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations; employees of the State Corporation "Government for Citizens" who directly provide public services, or whose job responsibilities are related to the provision of public services, or who have access to personal data of individuals and (or) other information, access to which is restricted; persons carrying out technical and author's supervision on highways;
28-1) official document- a document drawn up by an individual or a legal entity, which is executed and certified in the manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
29) corruption crimes – acts provided for in articles 189 (paragraph 2) part three, part four in the case of signs provided for in paragraph 2) part three), 190 (paragraph 2) part three, part four in the case of signs provided for in paragraph 2) part three), 218 (paragraph 1) part three), 218-1 (paragraph 1) part four), 234 (paragraph 1) part three), 249 (paragraph 2) part three), 361, 362 (paragraph 3) part four), 364, 365, 366, 367, 368, 369, 370, 450, 451 ( paragraph 2) parts two) and 452 of this Code;
30) crimes of terrorism – actions, provided by Articles 170, 171, 173, 177, 178, 184, 255, 256, 257, 258, 259, 260, 261, 269 and 270 of this Code;
31) terrorist group – an organized group, pursuing the objective of commission of one or several terrorist crimes;
32) a person, holding a leading position, - a person, vested with authority by heads of organized groups (criminal organizations) on coordination of criminal actions, or person for whom the group members recognize the right to take the most important decisions, affected their interests and determining direction and nature of their criminal activity;
33) transnational criminal society – an association of two or more of transnational criminal organizations;
34) transnational criminal organization - criminal organization, pursuing the objective of commission of one or several criminal infractions in the territory of two or more states or one state, upon organization of commission of action or upon management of its execution from territory of other state, and upon participation of citizen of other state;
35) transnational organized group - an organized group, pursuing the objective of commission of one or several criminal infractions in the territory of two or more states or one state, upon organization of commission of action or upon management of its execution from territory of other state, and upon participation of citizen of other state;
36) an organized group – sustained group of two or more persons, previously combined in order to commission of one or several criminal infractions;
37) organizational/management functions – a right to issue the orders and decrees, provided in the manner established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, compulsory for execution by career subordinated persons, as well as use incentives and disciplinary sanctions in relation of subordinated;
37-1) funds received from foreign sources – money and (or) other property provided by foreign states, international and foreign organizations, foreigners, stateless persons;
38) major damage and large amount – in Articles: 185, 186 and 458 – damage in an amount five hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 188, 188-1, 191 and 192 – the value of property or the amount of damage five hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 189, 190, 194, 195, 196, 200, 202, 204, 233-1, 269-1, 295-1 and 425 – the value of property or the amount of damage one thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 198 and 199 – the amount of damage or the cost of the rights to the use of intellectual property objects or the cost of copies of copyright objects and (or) related rights or goods containing inventions, utility models, industrial designs, selection achievements or topographies of integrated circuits, one thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 214, 214-1, 214-2 – income, the amount of which exceeds ten thousand monthly calculation indices; 214, 214-1, 214-2, 221, 237, 238 (part one), 239 (parts one and two), 242, 243 and 250 (part two) – damage caused to a citizen in an amount two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount ten thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 216 – damage caused to a citizen in an amount two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 217 – income, the amount of which exceeds one thousand monthly calculation indices; 218 – money and (or) other property obtained by criminal means in an amount exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 218-1 – money, property rights and (or) other property in an amount exceeding ten thousand monthly calculation indices; 222, 223, 224, 225, 226, 227 and 228 – damage caused to a citizen in an amount two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount exceeding the monthly calculation index by two thousand times; 220, 229, 230 – damage in the amount ten thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 221 – income, the amount of which exceeds twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 231 – the value of banknotes, coins, securities, and foreign currency in respect of which the counterfeiting was committed, exceeding the monthly calculation index by five hundred times; 232-1 – the amount of monetary reward and/or benefits of a proprietary nature, exceeding the monthly calculation index by five hundred times; 234 – the value of moved goods exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 235-1 – the amount of illegally exported, forwarded or transferred currency assets exceeding forty-five thousand monthly calculation indices; 236 – the value of unpaid customs duties, customs levies, taxes, special, anti-dumping and countervailing duties exceeding ten thousand monthly calculation indices; 238 (part two) – damage caused to a medium-sized business entity in the amount exceeding the monthly calculation index by twenty thousand times, or to a large business entity in the amount exceeding the monthly calculation index by forty thousand times; 244 – the amount of unpaid payments to the budget exceeding twenty thousand monthly calculation indices; 245 – the amount of unpaid payments to the budget exceeding fifty thousand monthly calculation indices over the audited period, provided that the amount of taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, calculated on the results of a tax audit for one calendar year from the audited period, exceeds ten percent of the amount of all taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, calculated by the taxpayer for that calendar year; 247 – the amount received by a person or the cost of services rendered to him/her, exceeding three hundred monthly calculation indices; 253 – the amount of money, the value of securities, other property or property benefits, exceeding five hundred monthly calculation indices; 258 – the amount of money, the value of property, property benefits, services rendered, exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices; 274 – damage caused to a citizen in an amount two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount ten thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 292 – damage caused to an individual in an amount one thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in an amount two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 307 – income, the amount of which exceeds one thousand monthly calculation indices; 323 – the cost of medicines and medical devices that have been counterfeited, exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices; 324, 325, 326, 328, 329, 330, 332, 333, 334, 335, 337, 338, 339, 341, 342 and 343 – cost expression of expenses, necessary to eliminate environmental damage or restore the consumer properties of natural resources in an amount exceeding one thousand monthly calculation indices; 340 – cost expression of expenses, necessary to eliminate environmental damage or restore the consumer properties of natural resources in an amount exceeding five hundred monthly calculation indices; 344 and 352-1 – the amount of damage exceeding two thousand monthly calculation indices; 350, 354, 355 and 356 – damage caused to a citizen in the amount two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in the amount one thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation index; 365 – damage caused to a citizen in the amount two hundred times exceeding the monthly calculation index, or damage caused to an organization or the state in the amount two thousand times exceeding the monthly calculation indices; 366 and 367 – the amount of money, the value of securities, other property or property benefits exceeding three thousand and up to ten thousand monthly calculation indices; 399 – the value of special technical means exceeding five thousand monthly calculation indices; in other articles - the amount of damage in the amount of one thousand times the monthly calculation index;
39) extremist crimes – actions, provided by Articles 174, 179, 180, 181, 182, 184, 258, 259, 260, 267, 404 (of the second and third part) and 405 of this Code;
40) extremist group – an organized group, pursuing the objective of commission of one or several extremist crimes;
41) an electronic medium – a tangible medium intended for storing information in an electronic form, as well as for recording or its reproduction by technical means;
42) crimes against sexual inviolability of minors – acts provided for in articles 120 (rape), 121 (sexual violence), 122 (sexual intercourse or other acts of a sexual nature with a person under 16 years of age), 123 (coercion to sexual intercourse, sodomy, lesbianism or other acts of a sexual nature), 124 (corruption of persons under sixteen years of age) , 134 (involvement of a minor in prostitution), 144 (involvement of minors in the production of erotic products), parts two and three of

Section 16. Original section/article: 312. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(production and trafficking in materials or objects containing pornographic images of minors or their involvement in entertainment activities of a pornographic nature) of this Code committed against minors and juveniles.
Footnote.

Section 17. Original section/article: 3. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 08.04.2016 № 489-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 10.01.2018 № 132-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2018); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 249-VI as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.08.2019); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 290-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of December 27, 2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon the expiration of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 06.10.2020 № 365-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2022 № 139-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (enforcement procedure, see art 3); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 14.03.2023 № 206-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 23.12.2023 № 50-VIII (effective from 01.01.2025); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 113-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 18.03.2025 № 175-VIII (enacted sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 30.06.2025 № 204-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 18. Original section/article: 4. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds of criminal responsibility
The only ground of criminal responsibility is commission of criminal infraction, in other words the action that contains all the signs of component element of the crimes or criminal offence, provided by this Code. No one may be subject twice to criminal responsibility for the same criminal infraction. The application of criminal Law is not permitted by analogy.

Section 19. Original section/article: 5. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
An effect of criminal Law in time
Criminality and penalty of action shall be determined by the Law, effected during commission of this action. Time of commission of a criminal infraction shall be the time of implementation of socially dangerous action (omission) independent from the time of the consequences.

Section 20. Original section/article: 6. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Retroactive effect of the criminal Law
1. The Law, eliminating the crime or penalty of action, mitigating responsibility or punishment or otherwise improving the situation of person, committed a criminal infraction shall have a retroactive effect, in other words shall be applied to the persons, committed an appropriate action before introduction this Law into effect, as well as to the persons, serving the sentence or served sentence, but have a conviction.
2. If a new criminal law mitigates the penalty of action, for which the person is serving a sentence, the imposed sentence shall be subject to reduction within the sanctions of newly issued criminal law. 
3. The Law, establishing the crime or penalty of action, strengthening the responsibility or punishment, or otherwise aggravating the situation of person, committed this action, shall not have a retroactive effect.

Section 21. Original section/article: 7. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Effect of criminal Law in relation of persons, committed a criminal infraction in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. A person, committed a criminal infraction in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall subject to responsibility under this Code. 
2. A criminal infraction, committed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be recognized an action which was initiated or continued or was completed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. An effect of this Code shall be also applied to criminal infractions, committed on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. A person, committed a criminal infraction on vessel, assigned to the port of the Republic of Kazakhstan and located in open water or air space outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be subject to the criminal responsibility under this Code, unless otherwise provided by international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Under this Code, a person committed a criminal infraction on warship or military aircraft of the Republic of Kazakhstan, independent from its location shall also bear a criminal responsibility.
4. The issue of criminal responsibility of diplomatic representatives of foreign states and other citizens who enjoy immunity, in the case of commission of criminal infraction by these persons in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be resolved in accordance with regulations of international law.

Section 22. Original section/article: 8. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
An effect of criminal Law in relation of persons, committed a criminal infraction outside the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed a criminal infraction outside the Republic of Kazakhstan shall subject to criminal responsibility under this Code, if an action, committed by them is recognized as criminally liable in the state, in the territory of which it was committed, and if these persons are not convicted in another state. Upon conviction of specified persons, a penalty may not exceed the maximum sanction, provided by the Law of the state in whose territory the criminal infraction was committed. On the same basis the foreigners and stateless persons being in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall bear responsibility, in the cases where they cannot be extradited to a foreign state for criminal prosecution or service of sentence in accordance with international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The provisions of this Code shall be applied regardless of the place of commission of the crime in respect of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, stateless persons, permanently residing on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in cases of commission of a terroristic or extremist crime or crimes against the peace and security of mankind or for causing other grave harm to the vital interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise established by an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Conviction and other penal consequence of commission of criminally punishable action by person, in the territory of other state shall not have a criminal legal meaning for resolution of the issue on criminal responsibility of this person for criminal infraction, committed in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless otherwise provided by international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan or if criminally punishable action, committed in the territory of other state is not affected the national interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
3. Military servants of military units of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deployed outside shall bear a criminal responsibility under this Code for criminal infractions, committed in the territory of foreign state, unless otherwise provided by international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
4. Foreigners, as well as stateless persons who do not permanently reside in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who have committed a crime outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, are subject to criminal liability under this Code in cases where this act is directed against the interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the commission of a corruption crime or a crime in the field of economic activity and in cases provided for by an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if they have not been convicted in another state and are being prosecuted in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 23. Original section/article: 8. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 24. Original section/article: 9. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Extradition of persons, committed a criminal infraction 
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed a criminal infraction in the territory of other state shall not subject to extradition, unless otherwise established by international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
2. Foreigners and stateless persons committed a crime outside the Republic of Kazakhstan and residing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be extradited to a foreign state for criminal prosecution or service of sentence in accordance with international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan or on the basis of reciprocity.
3. No one shall be extradited to a foreign State where there are serious grounds for believing that in this state he would be in danger of torture, violence or other cruel or degrading treatment or punishment, as well as in the case of a threat of the death penalty, unless otherwise provided by international treaties of the Republic Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 25. Original section/article: 9. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 26. Original section/article: 2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS

Section 27. Original section/article: 10. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The concept of crime and criminal offence
1. A criminal infractions shall be divided into crimes and criminal offences depending on the level of social danger and penalty. 
2.A culpably committed socially dangerous act (action or omission to act), prohibited by this Code under threat of punishment in the form of a fine, correctional labor, community service, restriction of liberty or imprisonment, shall be recognized as a crime.
3. An act (action or inaction), committed with guilt, not presenting a great social danger, caused insignificant damage or created a threat of harm to a person, organization, society or the state, for commission of which a penalty is provided in the form of a fine, corrective labors, community services, arrest, expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or a stateless person, shall be recognized as a criminal offence.
4. Action or omission shall not be a criminal infraction, although formally containing the signs of any action, provided by the Special Part of this Code, but by virtue of insignificance not representing social danger. 
Footnote.

Section 28. Original section/article: 10. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 29. Original section/article: 11. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Categories of crimes
1. The crimes shall be divided into crimes of little gravity, crimes of average gravity, grievous crime and especially grave crimes depending on the nature and level of social danger. 
2. Crimes of little gravity shall be recognized as intentional actions, for commission of which the maximum punishment, provided by this Code, not exceeds two years of imprisonment, as well as reckless actions, for commission of which this Code provides the maximum punishment, not exceeding five years of imprisonment. 
3. Crimes of average gravity shall be recognized as intentional actions, for commission of which the maximum punishment, provided by this Code, not exceeds two years of imprisonment, as well as reckless actions, for commission of which is provided a punishment in the form of imprisonment for the term of over five years. 
4. Grievous crimes shall be recognized as intentional actions, for commission of which this Code provides the maximum punishment, not exceeding twelve years of imprisonment.
5. Intentional acts, for the commission of which this Code provides for punishment in the form of imprisonment for a term of more than twelve years or life imprisonment, shall be recognized as especially grave crimes.
Footnote.

Section 30. Original section/article: 11. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 31. Original section/article: 12. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Repeated criminal infractions
1. Repeated criminal infractions shall be recognized as commission of two or more actions, provided by the same Article or part of Article of Special part of this Code. A crime and criminal offence shall not form between them repeatedly.
2. Criminal infraction shall not be recognized as committed repeatedly, if for previously committed criminal infraction a person has been convicted or released from criminal responsibility on the grounds established by the Law.
3. Continued criminal offense shall not be recognized as repeated, in other words a criminal infraction, consisting of the number of similar unlawful actions that are covered by common intent and purpose and form a whole one criminal infraction. 
4. In the cases, when repeatedly of crimes is provided by this Code as circumstance, entailing extended sentence, the crimes committed by person shall be qualified on the relevant part of Article of Special part of this Code, providing a punishment for repeated crimes. 
5. In the cases, when repeatedly of criminal offences is provided by this Code as circumstance, entailing extended punishment, the criminal offences committed by person shall be qualified on the relevant part of Article of Special part of this Code, providing a punishment for repeated criminal offences.

Section 32. Original section/article: 13. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A set of criminal infractions.
1. A set of criminal infractions shall be recognized as commission of two or more actions, provided by various Articles or parts of Article of this Code, for neither of which a person was not convicted or released from criminal responsibility on the grounds, established by the Law. Upon combination of criminal infractions a person shall bear a criminal responsibility for each committed action on the relevant Article or part of Article of this Code, if the signs of these actions are not covered by regulation of one Article of part of Article of this Code, providing an extended sentence. 
2. A set of criminal infractions shall be recognized as one action (omission), containing the signs of criminal infractions, provided by two or more Articles of this Code. Upon such combination a person shall bear a criminal responsibility for each committed action on the relevant Articles of this Code, if the signs of one action are not covered by the regulation of Article of this Code, providing an extended sentence for another action.
3. If the same action falls within the signs of general and special regulations of relevant Articles of this Code, a set of criminal infractions is absent and criminal responsibility arises under the Article of Special Part of this Code containing the special regulation.

Section 33. Original section/article: 14. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Repetition of crimes, dangerous repetition of crimes
1. Repetition of crimes shall be recognized as commission of grievous crime by person, if previously this person is convicted to imprisonment for commission of grievous crime. 
2. Dangerous repetition of crimes shall be recognized as commission by person:
1) grievous crime, if previously this person is convicted twice to imprisonment for commission of grievous crime or was convicted for especially grave crime;
2) especially grave crime, if previously he (she) was convicted to imprisonment for grievous or especially grave crime.
3. Convictions for the crimes, committed by person aged up to eighteen years, as well as the convictions, released or canceled in the manner, established by this Code shall not be considered upon recognition a repetition of crimes and dangerous repetition of crimes.
4. Repetition of crimes and dangerous repetition of crimes shall involve an extended sentence on the grounds and within provided by this Code.

Section 34. Original section/article: 15. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Persons subject to criminal responsibility
1. Sane individual, reached the age of sixteen at the time of the commission of a criminal infraction shall subject to the criminal responsibility.
2. Persons who have reached the age of fourteen at the time of committing the crime shall be subject to criminal liability for murder (

Section 35. Original section/article: 99. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), intentional infliction of grievous bodily harm (

Section 36. Original section/article: 106. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), intentional infliction of moderate bodily harm under aggravating circumstances (part two статьи 107), rape (

Section 37. Original section/article: 120. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), violent acts of a sexual nature (

Section 38. Original section/article: 125. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), assault on internationally protected persons or organizations (

Section 39. Original section/article: 173. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), inciting social, national, tribal, racial, class or religious discord (

Section 40. Original section/article: 174. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), attempt on the life of former President of the Republic of Kazakhstan (

Section 41. Original section/article: 177. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), attempt on the life of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan (

Section 42. Original section/article: 184. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), theft (parts two, three and four of

Section 43. Original section/article: 188. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), cattle theft (parts two, three and four of

Section 44. Original section/article: 188-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), robbery (parts two, three and four of

Section 45. Original section/article: 192. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), extortion (parts two, three and four of

Section 46. Original section/article: 194. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), illegal seizure of a car or other vehicles without the intent to steal under aggravating circumstances (parts two, three and four of

Section 47. Original section/article: 200. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), intentional destruction of or damage to another's property under aggravating circumstances (parts two and three of

Section 48. Original section/article: 202. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), intentional destruction, exportation or damage to objects of special value under aggravating circumstances (parts two and three of

Section 49. Original section/article: 203. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), an act of terrorism (

Section 50. Original section/article: 255. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), propaganda of terrorism or public calls to commit an act of terrorism (

Section 51. Original section/article: 256. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), creation, leadership of a terrorist group and participation in its activities (parts one and two of

Section 52. Original section/article: 257. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), financing terrorist or extremist activities and other assistance to terrorism or extremism (

Section 53. Original section/article: 261. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), assault on buildings, structures, communication means and communication facilities or their seizure (

Section 54. Original section/article: 269. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), knowingly false report of an act of terrorism (

Section 55. Original section/article: 273. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), theft or extortion of weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices (

Section 56. Original section/article: 291. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), hooliganism under aggravating circumstances (parts two and three of

Section 57. Original section/article: 293. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), theft or extortion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues (

Section 58. Original section/article: 298. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
), desecration of the bodies of the deceased and their burial places under aggravating circumstances (part two of

Section 59. Original section/article: 314. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
) and intentional damage to transport vehicles or communication routes (

Section 60. Original section/article: 350. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
).
3. If the minor has attained the age provided by first or second part of this Article, but in consequence of gap of mental development, not related with mental disease, during commission of criminal infraction could not be fully aware of the actual nature and social danger of his (her) actions (omission) or control them, he (she) shall subject to criminally responsibility. 
4. Persons committed the criminal infractions are equal before the Law independent from origin, social, official and property position, sex, race, nationality, language, religion, beliefs, membership of public associations, place of residence or any other circumstances.
Footnote.

Section 61. Original section/article: 15. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 62. Original section/article: 16. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Insanity
1. A person who at the time of commission a socially dangerous action provided by this Code has been in a state of insanity, in other words could not be aware of the actual nature and social danger of his actions (omission) or control them due to chronic mental disorder, temporary mental disease, dementia or other mental condition shall subject to a criminal responsibility.
2. Compulsory measures of a medical nature, provided by this Code may be applied to the person, recognized by court as insane.

Section 63. Original section/article: 17. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Criminal responsibility of persons with mental disease not excluding sanity
1. Sane person who during commission of a criminal infraction by virtue of mental disease could not be fully aware of the actual nature and social danger of his (her) actions (omission) or control them shall subject to a criminal responsibility.
2. Mental disease, not excluding sanity shall be considered by court upon assignment of punishment as mitigating circumstance and may serve as a basis for the appointment of enforcement measures of medical nature, provided by this Code.

Section 64. Original section/article: 18. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Criminal responsibility of persons, committed a criminal infraction in a state of intoxication 
A person, committed a criminal infraction in a state of intoxication, caused by the use of alcohol, narcotic drugs, psychotropic or other intoxicated substances shall not be released from criminal responsibility.

Section 65. Original section/article: 19. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Fault
1. A person shall subject to a criminal responsibility only for those socially dangerous actions (actions or omission) and socially dangerous consequences in relation of which his fault is established.
2. Objective imputation, in other words a criminal responsibility for innocent infliction of harm shall not be allowed.
3. A guilty person in a criminal infraction shall be recognized a person, committed an action intentionally or by negligence.
4. An action, committed by negligence shall be recognized as a criminal infraction only when it is specially provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code.

Section 66. Original section/article: 20. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A criminal infraction, committed intentionally 
1. A criminal infraction, committed intentionally shall be recognized as an action, committed with direct or indirect intent.
2. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed with direct intent, if a person realized the social danger of his (her) actions (omission), foresaw the possibility or the inevitability of socially dangerous consequences and wished their ensuing.
3. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed with indirect intent, if a person realized the social danger of his (her) actions (omission), foresaw the possibility of ensuing of socially dangerous consequences, did not wish, but consciously allowed ensuing of these consequences or treated them indifferently.

Section 67. Original section/article: 21. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A criminal infraction, committed by negligence
1. A criminal infraction, committed by negligence shall be recognized as an action, committed on self-reliance or by negligence. 
2. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed on self-reliance, if a person foresaw the possibility of ensuing of socially dangerous consequences of his (her) actions (omission), but without sufficient grounds lightly counted on to prevent these consequences.
3. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed by negligence, if a person did not foresaw the possibility of ensuing of socially dangerous consequences of his (her) actions (omission), but with proper care and forethought should have and could have foreseen these consequences.

Section 68. Original section/article: 22. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Responsibility for criminal infractions, committed with two forms of guilt
If as a result of an intentional criminal infraction grave consequences, which by law entail an extended sentence and which are not covered by intent of the person, are inflicted, a criminal responsibility for such consequences occur only in cases where the person foresaw the possibility of their ensuing, but without sufficient grounds confidently counted on their prevention, or if the person did not foresee, but he (she) should and could have foreseen the possibility of the ensuing of these consequences. In general, such a criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed intentionally.

Section 69. Original section/article: 23. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Innocent infliction of harm
1. An action shall be recognized as committed innocently, if the action (omission) and socially dangerous consequences are not covered by intent of the person who committed it, and a criminal responsibility for commission of such action and infliction of socially dangerous consequences by negligence by this Code are not provided.
2. An action shall be recognized as committed innocently, if the person who committed it was not aware and on circumstances of the case could not be aware of the social danger of his (her) actions (omission) or did not foresee the possibility of socially dangerous consequences and on circumstances of the case should not have been or could have foreseen them. An action shall be also recognized as committed innocently, if the person, foresaw ensuing of socially dangerous consequences upon its commission, counted on their prevention with reasonable grounds or could not prevent these consequences by virtue of non-compliance of their psychophysiological qualities with the requirements of extreme conditions or neuropsychic overloads.

Section 70. Original section/article: 24. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preparation for crime and attempt to commit crime
1. Preparation for crime shall be recognized as committed with direct intent of finding, production or adaptation of means or crime instruments, finding of companions in crime, conspiracy on commission of a crime or other intentional creating conditions for commission of a crime, if upon that a crime was not carried out for circumstances beyond the reasonable control of person. 
2. A criminal responsibility occurs for preparation of grievous or especially grave crime, as well as for preparation of a terrorist infraction.
3. An attempt to commit crime shall be recognized as an action (omission), committed with direct intent, immediately directed to commission a crime, if upon that a crime was not carried out for circumstances beyond the control of person.
4. A criminal responsibility occurs for attempt to commit crime of average gravity, grievous or especially grave crime, as well as for attempt to the crime of terrorism.
5. A criminal responsibility for preparation for crime and attempt to commit crime occurs under the same Article of this Code that for completed crime, with reference to the relevant part of this Article.

Section 71. Original section/article: 25. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Completed criminal infraction
A criminal infraction shall be recognized as completed, if the action, committed by person contains all the signs of component element of infraction, provided by the Special part of this Code.

Section 72. Original section/article: 26. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Voluntary refusal from criminal infraction
1. A voluntary refusal from criminal infraction shall be recognized as termination of actions of preparation or termination of the action (omission) by person, immediately directed to commission of this action, if the person were realizing the possibility of bringing it to the end. A person shall not subject to a criminal responsibility for criminal infraction, if he (she) voluntary and finally refused from bringing this action to the end.
2. A person who voluntarily refused to bring a criminal offense until the end shall subject to criminal responsibility only if the action committed by him actually contains the component element of a criminal infraction.
3. Organizer and instigator of a criminal infraction shall not subject to criminal responsibility, if these persons prevented bringing of this infraction to the end by perpetrator by notifying state bodies or by other taken measures. An accomplice shall not subject to criminal responsibility, if before the termination of a criminal infraction by perpetrator refuses him (her) in previously promised contribution or eliminate the results already provided assistance.
4. If the action of organizer or instigator, specified in a third part of this Article did not lead to the prevention of criminal infraction, the measures taken by them may be recognized by the court as mitigating circumstance upon assignment of punishment.

Section 73. Original section/article: 27. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The concept of complicity in criminal infraction
A complicity in criminal infraction shall be recognized an intentional joint participation of two or more persons in commission of intentional criminal infraction.

Section 74. Original section/article: 28. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Types of accomplices of a criminal infraction
1. Accomplices of criminal infraction along with the perpetrator shall be recognized as organizer, instigator and accomplice.
2. Perpetrator shall be recognized as a person, immediately committed a criminal infraction or immediately participated in its commission jointly with other persons (joint participants), as well as the person, committed a criminal infraction by use of other persons, not subject to the criminal responsibility by virtue of age, insanity or other circumstances, provided by this Code, and equally by use of persons, committed an action by negligence.
3. Organizer shall be recognized as a person, organized commission of a criminal infraction or managed its execution, and equally the person, created the criminal group or managed it. 
4. An instigator is a person who persuaded another person to commit a criminal offense by persuasion, bribery, threat or other means.
5. An accomplice is a person who assisted in the commission of a criminal offense by advice, instructions, providing information, tools or means of committing this act or removing obstacles to its commission, as well as a person who promised in advance to hide the perpetrator, tools or other means of committing a criminal offense, traces of this act or objects obtained illegally, as well as a person, promised in advance to purchase or sell such items.

Section 75. Original section/article: 29. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Responsibility of accomplices of a criminal responsibility
1. A criminal responsibility of accomplices shall be determinated by the nature and extent of participation of each of them in commission of criminal infraction.
2. Joint participants are responsible for the same article of this Code for the joint commission of a criminal infraction by them without reference to

Section 76. Original section/article: 28. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. Responsibility of organizer, instigator and accomplice occurs according to Article, providing a punishment for committed action, with reference to

Section 77. Original section/article: 28. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, except for the cases, when they simultaneously were joint participants.
4. In the case of not bringing of a crime to the end by executor due to circumstances beyond the control of him (her), other participants shall bear responsibility for complicity in preparation for crime or in attempt to commit crime. Also a person who, for circumstances beyond his (her) control failed to manage others to commit this action shall bear a criminal responsibility for preparation for crime 
5. A person, not being a subject of criminal infraction, specially specified in relevant Article of Special part of this Code, participated in commission of action, provided by this Article shall bear a criminal responsibility for this criminal infraction as his (her) organizer, instigator or accomplice.

Section 78. Original section/article: 30. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Excess of accomplice of a criminal infraction
Excess of accomplice shall be recognized as commission of a criminal infraction by person, not covered by intent of other accomplices. Other participants of criminal responsibility shall not subject for the excess.

Section 79. Original section/article: 31. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A criminal responsibility for criminal infraction, committed by group 
1. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed by group of persons, if in its commission jointly participated two or more perpetrators without previous concert.
2. A criminal infraction shall be recognized as committed by group of persons on previous concert, if the persons, previously came to agreement on joint commission of criminal infraction, are participated in it. 
3. A crime shall be recognized as committed by criminal group, if it was committed by organized group, criminal organization, criminal society, transnational organized group, transnational criminal organization, transnational criminal society, terroristic group, extremist group, gang or illegal paramilitary unit. 
4. A person, created a criminal group or managed it shall subject to the criminal responsibility for organization of criminal group and its management in the cases, provided by the relevant Articles of Special part of this Code, as well as for all crimes committed by criminal group, if they were covered by his (her) intent. 
5. Other participants of criminal group shall bear a criminal responsibility for participation in it in the cases, provided by the relevant Articles of Special part of this Code, as well as for the crimes, in participation or commission of which they were participated.
6. Founders, members, executives, members of management bodies, and employees of organizations registered as legal entities, and (or) executives, employees of their structural subdivisions may not be recognized as a criminal group solely by virtue of the organizational and staffing structure of the organization and (or) its structural subdivision and the commission of any offense in connection with the exercise of their powers to manage the organization or in connection with the organization's engagement in entrepreneurial or other economic activity, except in cases where such organizations and (or) their structural subdivisions were established for the express purpose of committing one or more offenses.
Footnote.

Section 80. Original section/article: 31. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 81. Original section/article: 32. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Necessary defence 
1. Necessary defence shall be recognized as lawful protection of personality and rights of defender and other persons, as well as the interests of society and the state protected by the Law, from socially assault, as well as by infliction of harm to an attacker.
All the persons shall have a right to the necessary defence in equal measure independent from their professional or special training and official position. This right shall subject to the person independent from possibility to avoid socially-dangerous infringement or request assistance of other persons or the state bodies.
2. Infliction of harm to the attacker in self-defense, in other words upon protection of identity, dwelling, property, land plot and other rights of defender or other persons, the interests of society or the state, protected by the Law from socially-dangerous infringement by infliction of harm to the attacker, if by this the use of excessive force in self-defense was not allowed shall not be a criminal infraction.
3. Use of excessive force in self-defense shall be recognized as obvious inconsistence of protection to the nature and extend of social danger of infringement, in a result of which obviously excessive harm, not occurred by circumstance is caused to the attacker. Such excess shall involve a criminal responsibility only in the cases of intentional infliction of harm. 
Infliction of harm to a person who encroaches on a person’s life, or when repelling another encroachment associated with an armed assault or violence dangerous to the life of the defending or other persons, or with a direct threat of such violence, or with a forcible entry into a dwelling, premises or with arson of a dwelling, premises, and also if the defending person, due to the suddenness of the encroachment, could not objectively assess the degree and nature of the danger of the assault, shall not be deemed as exceeding the limits of necessary defense.
Footnote.

Section 82. Original section/article: 32. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 83. Original section/article: 33. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infliction of harm upon detention of a person, committed infringement 
1. Infliction of harm to the person, committed a criminally punishable action, upon his (her) detention for delivering to the state bodies and suppression of possibility of commission by them the new infringements, if to detain such person was not possible by other means and upon that the excess of measures, necessary for that was not allowed shall not be a criminal infraction.
2. Excess of measures, necessary for detention of persons, committed infringement shall be recognized as their obvious inconsistence to the nature and extend of social danger of infringement committed by detained person and circumstances of detention, when the obviously excessive harm, not caused by the circumstance, is caused to the person without necessity. Such excess shall involve a criminal responsibility only in the cases of intentional infliction of harm.
3. Injured persons and other citizens as well as the persons specially authorized for detention of a person committed infringement shall possess the right for that.

Section 84. Original section/article: 34. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Extreme necessity 
1. Infliction of harm to the interests, protected by this Code in a state of extreme necessity, in other words for elimination of danger, immediately threatening to the life, health, rights and legal interests of this person or other persons, the interests of social or the state, if this danger could not be eliminated by other means and upon that exceed the limits of extreme necessity was not allowed shall be a criminal infraction.
2. Exceed of limits of extreme necessity shall be recognized as infliction of harm, obviously inconsistent to the nature and extend of threatened to the danger and circumstance, in which the danger was eliminated, when the harm was caused to the legally protected interests, equal or greater than prevented. Such exceed shall involve responsibility only in the cases of intentionally infliction of harm.

Section 85. Original section/article: 35. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Carrying out of operational-investigative, counterintelligence measures, or secret investigative actions 
1. An action, caused harm to the interests, protected by this Code, committed upon execution of operational-investigative, counterintelligence measures or secret investigative actions in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by an employee of the authorized state body or on behalf of such a body by another person cooperating with this body, if this act is committed to prevent, detect, disclose or investigate criminal infractions, committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert, criminal group, prevention, disclosure and suppression of intelligence and (or) subversive actions, as well as if the harm caused to law enforcement interests is less significant than the harm caused by these criminal infractions and if their prevention, disclosure or investigation, as well as the exposure of perpetrators in commission of criminal infractions could not be carried out in another way, shall not be a criminal infraction.
2. The provisions of part one of this Article shall not be applied to the persons, committed actions, linked with a threat to human life or health, environmental disaster, public disaster or other grave consequences.
Footnote.

Section 86. Original section/article: 35. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 36-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication).

Section 87. Original section/article: 36. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Substantiated risk 
1. Infliction of harm to the interests, protected by this Code upon substantiated risk for achievement of the socially useful objective shall not be a criminal infraction.
2. The risk shall be recognized as substantiate, if the specified objective could not be achieved by the actions (omission), not related with the risk and person, committed the risk has taken sufficient measures for prevention of harm to the interests, protected by this Code. 
3. The risk shall not be recognized as substantiate, if it certainly was linked with a danger to life or human health, environmental disaster, public disaster or other grave consequences.

Section 88. Original section/article: 37. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Physical or mental coercion 
1. Infliction of harm to the interests, protected by this Code as a result of physical or mental coercion, if in consequence of such coercion a person could not manage his (her) actions (omission) shall not be a criminal infraction. 
2. An issue on criminal responsibility for infliction of harm to the interests, protected by this Code as a result of physical or mental coercion, in consequence of which a person has remained possibility to manage his (her) actions shall be decided in recognition of provisions of

Section 89. Original section/article: 38. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Execution of an order or instructions 
1. Infliction of harm to the interests, protected by this Code by person, acted in pursuance of order of instruction, compulsory for him (her) shall not be a criminal infraction. A person who gave the illegal order or instruction shall bear a criminal responsibility for infliction of such harm.
2. A person committed an intentional criminal infraction in pursuance of certainly illegal order or instruction shall bear a criminal responsibility on a common basis. Non execution of certainly illegal order or instruction shall exclude a criminal responsibility.

Section 90. Original section/article: 39. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Concept and purposes of punishment 
1. The punishment is a measure of the state enforcement, appointed by court verdict. The punishment shall be applied to the person, recognized as a guilty in commission of criminal infraction and shall be concluded in deprivation or restriction of rights and freedoms of such person.
2. The punishment shall be applied in order of rectification of social justice, as well as correction of convicted person and prevention of commission of new criminal infractions both to the convicted persons, and to other persons. Punishment is not intended to cause physical suffering or abasement of human dignity.

Section 91. Original section/article: 40. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Types of punishments 
1. The following basic punishments may be applied to the person, recognized as a guilty in commission of criminal offence:
1) fine;
2) corrective labors;
3) community service;
4) arrest;
5) deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or a stateless person.
2. The following basic punishments may be applied to the person, recognized as a guilty in commission of a crime:
1) fine;
2) corrective labors;
2-1) community services;
3) restriction of liberty;
4) imprisonment;
5) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
3. The following additional punishments along with the basic punishment may be applied to the person, recognized as guilty in commission of criminal infraction:
1) confiscation of property;
2) deprivation of special, military or honorary rank, grade rank, 
diplomatic rank, qualified class and state awards;
3) deprivation of right to hold specific position or engage in certain activity;
3-1) deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
4) deportation a foreigner or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 92. Original section/article: 40. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 93. Original section/article: 41. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Fine 
1. Fine is a monetary penalty imposed within the limits provided for by this Code, in the amount relevant to a certain quantity of monthly calculation indices established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and acted at the moment of commission of a criminal infraction, or in the amount, multiple the sum or cost of a bribe, the sum of money transferred or cost of the transferred property, the cost of stolen property, the sum of income received or the sum of payments not received to the budget.
2. A fine shall be established for criminal offenses, in the range from twenty to two hundred monthly calculation indices, for crimes – in the range from two hundred to ten thousand monthly calculation indices or in a multiple amount.
3. When imposing a fine, the court shall determine its amount and term of payment, taking into account the gravity of the criminal infraction, the property and family status of the convicted person, the possibility of receiving a salary or other income.
4. The term of payment of the fine shall be calculated from the date of entry into force of the court sentence and may not exceed three years.
5. In case of temporary deterioration of the property status of the convicted person due to delay or non-payment of wages, temporary disability, loss of work or income, the court may grant a delay for a term of one month to one year. The delay time is not included in the calculation of the term of payment of the fine established by the court sentence.
6. In case of non-payment of the fine within the established terms, the sentence (decision) of the court, shall be subject to compulsory execution. The unpaid part of the fine shall be replaced:
1) to the convicted for a criminal offence – by community services at the rate of one hour of social works for one unpaid monthly calculation index or arrest at the rate of one day of arrest for four unpaid monthly calculation indices;
2) to the convicted for a crime of little or average gravity – by restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty for four unpaid monthly calculation indices;
3) to the convicted for a grave crime – deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of deprivation of liberty for four unpaid monthly calculation indices;
4) to the convicted to a multiple fine – by deprivation of liberty within the limits of the sanction of relevant Article of the Special part of this Code, taking into account the paid and surcharged part of the fine.
7. In imposing a more lenient punishment than that provided for this criminal offence, in imposing punishment for an uncompleted crime, as well as in replacing the punishment, the amount of the fine may be below the lower limit established by this Article.
Footnote.

Section 94. Original section/article: 41. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 95. Original section/article: 42. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Corrective labors 
1. Corrective labors are monetary penalty imposed within the limits provided for by this Code, in the amount relevant to a certain quantity of monthly calculation indices established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and acted at the moment of commission of a criminal offense. 
2. Corrective labors shall be executed by monthly deduction and transfer to the victims compensation Fund to from ten to fifty percent of the salary (the monetary maintenance) of the convicted minus funds which are subject to periodic payment (collecting) on account of the alimony, compensation of the harm caused by the injury or other damage to health, and as well as the death of the breadwinner.
3. For criminal offenses corrective labors shall be established within the limits from twenty to two hundred monthly calculation indices, for crimes – within the limits from two hundred to ten thousand monthly calculation indices.
4. In imposing corrective labors, the court shall determine their amount, taking into account the gravity of the criminal offense, property and marital status of the convicted.
5. In case of loss of working capacity, the convicted person may be released from execution of the remaining part of the punishment or the unexecuted part shall be replaced by a fine. In case of occurrence of other circumstances interfering execution of corrective labors, they are replaced:
1) to the convicted for a criminal offence – by community services or arrest at the rate of one hour of social works for one uncollected monthly calculation index, one day of arrest for four uncollected monthly calculation indices;
2) to the convicted for a crime of little or average gravity – by restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty for four uncollected monthly calculation indices;
3) to the convicted for a grave crime – by deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of deprivation of liberty for four uncollected monthly calculation indices.
6. In imposing a more lenient punishment, than that, provided for this criminal offense, in imposing punishment for an uncompleted crime, as well as in replacing the punishment, the amount of corrective labors may be below the lower limit established by this Article.
7. Corrective labors shall not be imposed to the persons who are recognized as disabled or do not have a permanent job or studying at educational institutions with a break from production.
Footnote.

Section 96. Original section/article: 42. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 97. Original section/article: 43. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Community services
1. Public works mean execution by convicted persons of free community services, not requiring of specific qualification, organized by the local executive bodies in the public places.
2. Social works shall be established for criminal offenses for a term of twenty to two hundred hours, for the crimes of little and average gravity – for a term of two hundred to one thousand two hundred hours. Social works shall be served not more than four hours a day with the release of the convicted person for the time of their serving from performance of labor duties at the place of basic work or in their free time.
2-1. In case of evasion from social works they are replaced:
1) to the convicted for a criminal offence – by the arrest at the rate of one day of arrest for four hours of social works;
2) to the convicted for a crime – by restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty for four hours of social works.
2-2. In imposing a more lenient sentence than that provided for this criminal offence, in imposing punishment for an uncompleted crime, as well as in replacing the punishment, the term of social works may be below the lower limit, established by this Article.
3. Involvement in community service shall not be assigned to pregnant women; women who have or are raising a minor child under the age of three; men raising a minor child under the age of three alone; women aged fifty-eight and over; men aged sixty-three and over; persons with a first or second category disability; and military servants.
Footnote.

Section 98. Original section/article: 43. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 99. Original section/article: 44. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Restriction of liberty
1. Restriction of liberty consists in establishing probationary control over the convicted person for a period of six months to seven years and engaging him in compulsory work for one hundred hours annually during the entire term of serving the sentence. Restriction of liberty is served at the convicted person's place of residence without isolation from society. Compulsory work shall be organized by local executive bodies in public places and shall be served no more than four hours a day. Convicted persons who have a permanent job or are students, minors, pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child under the age of three, men raising young children under the age of three alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, men aged sixty-three and over, persons with the first or second disability groups, as well as convicts whose punishment has been replaced by restriction of liberty for a period of less than six months shall not be involved in compulsory work.
2. Probationary control is carried out by an authorized state body and, by a court decision, includes the execution by the convict of the following duties: do not change the permanent place of residence, work, study without notifying the authorized state body exercising control over the behavior of the convict; do not visit certain places; undergo treatment for mental, behavioral disorders (diseases) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, sexually transmitted diseases; provide financial support to the family; other duties that contribute to the correction of the convict and prevention of the commission of new criminal offenses by him.
3. In case of malicious evasion from serving the restriction of liberty, its unserved term shall be replaced by deprivation of liberty at the rate of one day of deprivation of liberty for one day of restriction of liberty.
4. In imposing a more lenient sentence than that provided for this criminal infraction, in imposing punishment for an uncompleted crime, as well as in replacing the punishment, the term of restriction of liberty may be below the lower limit established by this Article.
Footnote.

Section 100. Original section/article: 44. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 101. Original section/article: 45. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is suspended until 01.01.2022, having established that its provisions shall be applied in respect of military personnel and in the cases provided for by part three of

Section 102. Original section/article: 43. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, from 1 January 2017.

Section 103. Original section/article: 45. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Arrest 
1. Arrest implies isolation of the convicted person from the society for the whole term of the imposed or replaced punishment.
2. Arrest shall be established for a term of ten to fifty days. The term of detention shall be included in the term of arrest.
3. Arrest shall not be imposed or applied as a substitute for punishment to minors, pregnant women, women having or bringing up a minor child, men bringing up a minor child alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, men aged sixty-three and over, persons with disabilities of the first or second group.
4. Arrest shall be served by military servants in the detention room.
5. When replacing the punishment, the term of arrest may be below the lower limit established by this Article.
Footnote.

Section 104. Original section/article: 45. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 105. Original section/article: 46. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deprivation of liberty 
1. Deprivation of liberty shall be in isolation of the convicted person from the society by sending him (her) to the institution of the penal system. 
2. Persons, convicted to deprivation of liberty, who were under eighteen at the moment of sentencing, shall be placed in institutions of the penal system of medium security for the maintenance of minors.
3. Deprivation of liberty for commission of crimes provided for by this Code shall be established for a term of six months to fifteen years, and for especially grave crimes - up to twenty years or for life. For crimes by negligence, the term of deprivation of liberty may not exceed ten years. In case of replacement of the fine, corrective labors, community services or restriction of liberty by deprivation of liberty it may be imposed for the term of less than six months. In the event of partial or complete cumulation of liberty deprivation terms on sentencing for cumulative crimes and in cases provided for by part five of

Section 106. Original section/article: 77. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the maximum liberty deprivation term cannot be more than twenty-five years, and on cumulative sentences - more than thirty years.
4. Life imprisonment may be established as a penalty for the commission of especially grave crimes. Life imprisonment shall not be imposed on persons who committed a crime under the age of eighteen, women, persons with a first or second category disability, and men who have reached the age of sixty-three. Life imprisonment may be commuted by an act of pardon to a fixed term of imprisonment.
4-1. If the sanction of an article of the Special Part of this Code does not provide for any type of punishment other than life imprisonment, then persons who committed a crime under the age of eighteen shall be sentenced to deprivation of liberty for a term of fifteen to twenty years, while women, persons with a first or second category disability, and men who have reached the age of sixty-three shall be sentenced to deprivation of liberty for a term of twenty to twenty-five years.
5. Serving of prison sentence is appointed:
1) in institutions of the minimum security penitentiary system to:
persons convicted of crimes committed through negligence;
persons convicted of crimes unrelated to the use of violence, provided for in Chapters 7, 8, 9, 12 and 13 of this Code;
persons convicted of crimes provided for in Chapter 15 of this Code, in the event that they fully compensate for the damage caused by the crime;
persons convicted for the first time of committing an intentional crime, for which a prison sentence up to two years was imposed.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for committing crimes provided for in parts 1-1, two, three and four of

Section 107. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, parts two, three and four of

Section 108. Original section/article: 368. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
2) in medium security penitentiary institutions:
persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for a term of more than two years for committing intentional crimes, who have not previously served deprivation of liberty;
persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for committing the crimes provided for in parts 1-1, two, three and four of

Section 109. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, parts two, three and four of

Section 110. Original section/article: 368. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, who have not previously served deprivation of liberty;
persons who have not previously served imprisonment, for whom a fine, correctional labor, community service, restriction of freedom have been replaced by imprisonment;
3) in maximum security penitentiary institutions:
persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty who have previously served a prison sentence for committing an intentional crime;
persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for committing the crimes provided for by parts 1-1, two, three and four of

Section 111. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, parts two, three and four of

Section 112. Original section/article: 368. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, who have previously served a liberty deprivation sentence;
persons who have previously served deprivation of liberty, for whom a fine, correctional labor, community service, restriction of freedom have been replaced by deprivation of liberty;
4) in high security penitentiary institutions to persons sentenced to life imprisonment.
In the case of a cumulative sentence for serving deprivation of liberty, a stricter type of institution is determined, established by one of the verdicts included in the aggregation, given the specifics of this part.
6. Persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for a term of more than five years for committing especially grave crimes, in case of a dangerous recidivism of crimes, who have previously served deprivation of liberty, except for persons sentenced to life imprisonment, may be assigned to serve part of the punishment term, but not more than five years in penitentiary institutions of full security.
7. A change in the type of institution imposed by the verdict shall be made by the court in accordance with

Section 113. Original section/article: 96. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Penal code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 114. Original section/article: 46. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.04.2017 № 58-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 115. Original section/article: 47. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Death penalty
Footnote.

Section 116. Original section/article: 47. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 117. Original section/article: 48. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Confiscation of property
1. Confiscation of property is the compulsory and gratuitous seizure and transfer into state ownership of property obtained by criminal means or acquired with funds obtained by criminal means, as well as property used as an instrument or means of committing a criminal infraction.
2. Money and other property liable to confiscation:
1) obtained as a result of commission of criminal infraction, and other incomes from this property, except for the property and incomes from it, subject to return to the legal possessor;
2) in which a property, obtained as a result of commission of criminal infraction, and incomes from this property were partially or completely transformed or converted;
3) used or intended for financing or other ensuring of extremist or terroristic activity or criminal group;
4) being a tool or means of commission of criminal infraction;
5) referred to in paragraphs 1), 2), 3) and 4) of this part, transferred to the convicted in the ownership of other persons.
3. If confiscation of defined subject, included in the property, specified in the first and second part of this Article, at the date of making decision by court on confiscation of this subject is impossible due to its use, sale or by other reason, an amount of money, which corresponds to the cost of this subject shall liable to confiscation by court decision. 
4. In the cases, provided by the

Section 118. Original section/article: 15. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of Criminal procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, confiscation of property may be applied by court decision as the measure of criminal – legal effect. 
5. Not subject to confiscation:
1) the property necessary for the convicted person or persons who are dependent on him/her, according to the list provided by criminal-executive legislation;
2) money and other property legalized in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, repatriates and persons having a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with property legalization by them", in case, they are obtained as a result of a criminal infraction under which, the same Law provides for exemption from criminal liability.
The provisions of paragraph two of part five of this article shall not apply to judicial acts that entered into force as of September 1, 2014, nor shall they apply to legalized property and money that was not subject to legalization.
Footnote.

Section 119. Original section/article: 48. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 120. Original section/article: 49. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deprivation of special, military or honorary title, class rank, diplomatic rank, qualified class and the state awards
1. Upon conviction for commission of intentional criminal infraction in recognition of identity of guilty person, a court may deprive him (her) of special, military or honorary or other title, class rank, diplomatic rank, qualified class.
2. Upon conviction of person, having the state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and equally the special, military, honorary or other title, class rank, diplomatic rank or qualified class, awarded by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan for commission of intentional criminal infraction, upon sentencing a court may make, and on corruption crimes makes submission to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on deprivation the convicted person of these awards, titles, class rank, diplomatic rank or qualified class.

Section 121. Original section/article: 50. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deprivation of right to hold specific position or engage in defined activity
1. Deprivation of the right to hold a certain position or engage in a certain activity is in prohibition to hold certain positions on state service, local self-government bodies, financial organizations or engage in certain professional or other activities. 
2. The deprivation of the right to hold a certain position or engage in a certain activity shall be established for a term of one to ten years.
For committing economic crimes and crimes against interests of service in financial organizations by an executive employee of a financial organization, a banking and(or) insurance holding company, a major participant (a major shareholder) that is an individual, the head, a member of governing body, the head, a member of executive body, the chief accountant of a major participant (a major shareholder) that is a legal entity of the financial organization, which are provided for by part two of

Section 122. Original section/article: 250. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, including persons that perform functions of governing body or executive body of the financial organization temporarily or under special authority specified in part two of

Section 123. Original section/article: 239. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the deprivation of the right to hold a certain position shall be established for a term of at least five years and up to a lifetime ban to hold the position of an executive employee of a financial organization, a banking and (or) insurance holding company and to be a major participant (major shareholder) of a financial organization.
For commission of crimes against the sexual inviolability of minors, as well as crimes provided for in parts two, three, four and five of

Section 124. Original section/article: 132. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, parts two and three of

Section 125. Original section/article: 133. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities is mandatory and consists in a life ban on holding pedagogical positions and positions related to work with minors.
For committing corruption crimes, it is obligatory to deprive of the right to hold a certain position or engage in a certain activity, which means a lifetime ban to hold civil service positions, to be a judge, to hold positions in local government bodies, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its departments, the authorized body for the regulation, control and supervision of the financial market and financial organizations, government organizations and quasi-public entities. 
For committing transport crimes provided for by part four of

Section 126. Original section/article: 346. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, the deprivation of the right to engage in a certain activity means a lifetime ban on the right to drive a vehicle. 
3. Deprivation of right to hold specific position or engage in defined activity may be imposed in the cases when it is not provided by relevant Article of Special part of this Code as additional punishment for the relevant criminal infraction, if in recognition of nature and extent of social danger of committed action and identity of guilty person, a court shall recognize as impossible to maintain his (her) right to hold specific positions or engage in defined activity.
4. Upon imposition of this punishment as additional to imprisonment, arrest, it shall be extended to all the time of serving of basic punishment, but upon that its period is calculated from the date of service of imprisonment, arrest. In the case of imposition of deprivation of right to hold specific positions or engage in defined activity as additional type of punishment to other basic types of punishment, as well as upon deferral of service of sentence or conditional sentence, its term is calculated from the date of entry of verdict into legal force. 
Footnote.

Section 127. Original section/article: 50. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 262-VI as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 128. Original section/article: 50-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan consists in forced termination by the state of a stable political and legal relationship with the convicted person, expressing the totality of their mutual rights and obligations. 
2. Deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not be imposed on the persons who have committed a crime before the age of eighteen.
Footnote.

Section 129. Original section/article: 50-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 130. Original section/article: 51. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deportation outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the foreigner or stateless person
1. Deportation outside the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or a stateless person shall be executed forcibly with establishment of a ban on entry of this person into the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for a term of five years.
2. The expulsion of a foreigner or a stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan for the commission of a crime may be imposed as an additional type of punishment, and for the commission of a criminal offence – both as main and additional types of punishment.
If this type of punishment is imposed as an additional one by court, it shall be executed after serving the main type of punishment or release from further serving on the grounds provided for by subparagraphs 3), 5), 6) and 7) of part one of

Section 131. Original section/article: 161. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Penal Execution Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and in cases of probation – from the moment a judgment becomes final and binding.
Footnote.

Section 132. Original section/article: 51. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI as of 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 133. Original section/article: 4. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
IMPOSITION OF PUNISHMENT

Section 134. Original section/article: 52. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
General principles of imposition of punishment
1. Just' punishment within established by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code and in recognition of provisions of General part of this Code shall be imposed to the person, recognized as a guilty in commission of criminal infraction.
2. A punishment, necessary and sufficient to correct and prevent the new criminal infractions shall be imposed to the person, committed a criminal infraction. More severe type of punishment from the number of provided for committed criminal infraction shall be imposed only in the case, if its less severe type could not ensure achievement of objectives of punishment. More severe punishment than provided by the relevant Articles of Special part of this Code for committed action may be imposed on set of criminal infractions or on set of verdicts in accordance with Articles 58 and 60 of this Code. Basis for imposition of less severe punishment than provided by the relevant Articles of Special part of this Code for committed action shall be determined by

Section 135. Original section/article: 55. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
3. The nature and extent of social danger of criminal infraction, personality of guilty person, as well as his (her) behavior before and after commission of infraction, consequence, mitigating and aggravating responsibility and punishment, as well as effect of imposed punishment to the correction of convicted person and living conditions of his (her) family or persons, being in his (her) dependents shall be considered upon imposition of punishment.

Section 136. Original section/article: 53. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences, mitigating criminal responsibility and punishment
1. Consequences, mitigating criminal responsibility and punishment shall be recognized as:
1) commission of first criminal offence or first crime of little or average gravity due to coincidence;
2) minority of guilty person;
3) pregnancy;
4) the fact of having a minor child, including a child being raised by the convicted person;
5) rendering of medical or other assistance to the injured person, immediately after commission of criminal infraction independent from consequences of rendering of such assistance;
6) voluntary compensation of property damage, caused as a result of criminal infraction, expiation of moral or other harm, caused by criminal infraction;
7) commission of criminal infraction due to the severe personal, family or other set of circumstances or on compassion grounds;
8) commission of criminal infraction as a result of physical or mental compulsion or by virtue of material, service or other dependence;
9) commission of a criminal infraction upon violation of conditions of legality of necessary defense, extreme necessity, detention of the person, who committed the infraction, reasonable risk, execution of the order or instruction, in implementation of operational investigative, counterintelligence measures or secret investigative actions;
10) illegality or immorality of behavior of injured person, being a reason for the criminal infraction;
11) sincere repentance, acknowledgement of guilt, active contribution to the detection of criminal infraction, exposure of other accomplices of criminal infraction and search for property, obtained as a result of criminal infraction.
2. Consequences, not providing by first part of this Article may be considered as mitigating upon imposition of punishment.
3. If mitigating circumstance is provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code as a sign of criminal infraction, it may not be re-considered in itself upon imposition of punishment.
Footnote.

Section 137. Original section/article: 53. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 36-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 138. Original section/article: 54. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consequences, aggravating criminal responsibility and punishment
1. Consequences, aggravating criminal responsibility and punishment shall be recognized as:
1) repeated criminal infractions, repetition of crimes, dangerous repetition of crimes;
2) infliction of grave consequences by criminal infraction;
3) commission of criminal infraction within a group of persons, groups of persons on previous concert, criminal group;
4) particularly active role in commission of criminal infraction;
5) involvement in the commission of a criminal offense of persons who, knowingly for the perpetrator, suffer from a severe mental, behavioral disorder (disease), or persons who have not reached the age from which criminal liability arises;
6) commission of criminal infraction on national, racial or religious hatred or enmity grounds, out of revenge for lawful actions of other persons, as well as in order to conceal another criminal infraction or facilitate its commission;
7) commission of criminal infraction in relation of woman, certainly for guilty person, being in the state of pregnancy, as well as in relation of minor, other defenseless or helpless person or person, being depending on the guilty person;
8) commission of criminal infraction in relation of person or his (her) relatives in connection with execution of the service, professional or social duty by this person;
9) commission of criminal infraction with particular cruelty, sadism, abuse and torment for the injured person;
10) commission of criminal infraction with the use of weapons, ammunition, explosive substances and explosive or simulation devices, specially produced technical equipment, highly flammable and flammable liquids, poisonous and radioactive substance, medicinal and other chemical and pharmacological preparations, as well as with application of physical and mental coercion or dangerous method;
11) commission of criminal infraction in the conditions of emergency situation, emergency situation, as well as in the course of mass disorders;
12) commission of criminal infraction in the in a state of alcoholic, drug or toxic intoxication. A court shall have a right not to recognize this consequence as aggravating depending on the nature of criminal infraction;
13) commission of criminal infraction by person, violated by that an oath, taken by them or professional oath;
14) commission of criminal infraction with the use of confidence, vested to the guilty person by virtue of its official position or contract;
15) commission of criminal infraction with the use of uniform or the documents of representative of authority;
16) commission of criminal infraction by the employee of law enforcement or special state body, judge with the use of his (her) official position.
2. If the consequence, specified in a first part of this Article is provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code as the sign of criminal infraction, it cannot be re-considered as the circumstance, aggravating responsibility and punishment.
3. Upon imposition of punishment a court may not recognize the circumstances, not specified in a first part of this Article as aggravating.
Footnote.

Section 139. Original section/article: 54. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (effective after ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 140. Original section/article: 55. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of lenient punishment than provided for this criminal infraction
1. If an Article or part of Article of Special part of this Code, according to which a person is recognized as guilty shall provide less severe, than imprisonment, basic type of punishment, an imprisonment shall not be imposed upon conviction of person for commission of crime:
1) little or average gravity in the case, when the person is voluntary compensated a property damage, effected the moral or other harm, caused by the crime;
2) in the scope of economic activity, except for provided by

Section 141. Original section/article: 218. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, 218-1, 248 and 249 of this Code, in the case, when a person is voluntary compensated a property damage, caused by the crime.
2. Upon existence of a mitigating circumstance, not provided as a sign of the committed crime and absence of aggravating circumstances, the term or extent of the main type of punishment may not exceed when committing of:
1) a criminal offence, minor or medium-gravity crimes - half;
2) grievous crime - two-thirds;
3) a grievous crime involving an attempt on human life or health, or an especially grave crime – three quarters;
4) an especially grave crime involving an attempt on a person's life or health – four-fifths of the maximum term or amount provided for in the relevant article of the Special Part of this Code.
The provisions of this section shall not apply if aggravating circumstances are provided for as an element of a criminal infraction.
3. In cases of expedited pre-trial investigation, as well as cases in which all conditions of the procedural agreement have been fulfilled, the term or severity of the main type of punishment for a criminal infraction may not exceed half, for a grievous crime involving an attack on human life or health, or an especially grave crime – three quarters, and for committing an especially grave crime involving an attack on human life or health, four-fifths of the maximum term or amount provided for in the relevant article of the Special Part of this Code. In cases where a guilty verdict has been handed down in summary proceedings, the fine shall be imposed in the amount of ten to twenty monthly calculation indices for a criminal misdemeanor, and fifty to two hundred monthly calculation indices for the commission of a minor crime.. 
4. Upon existence of exceptional circumstances, related with the purposes and motives for action, the role of guilty person, his (her) behavior during or after commission of criminal infraction, and other consequences, essentially reducing the extent of social danger of the action, and equally upon active assistance of participant of group criminal infraction to detection of actions, committed by group, a punishment may be imposed below the lower limit, provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code, or the court may impose more lenient type of punishment than provided by this Article, or shall not apply an additional type of punishment, provided as compulsory. 
5. Both separate mitigating consequences, and set of such consequences may be imposed as exceptional.
6. Upon existence of consequences, specified in the second or third part of this Article, a punishment may be imposed below the lower limit provided by the relevant Article of Special part of this Code.
7. In cases of imposition of punishment for preparation or attempted crime, the limits specified in parts two and three of this Article shall be determined, taking into account the provisions of

Section 142. Original section/article: 56. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
8. The provisions of this Article shall not apply to persons who have committed a crime involving the intentional causing of death to a person, or a crime against the sexual integrity of a minor, except in the case where such a crime is committed by a minor against a minor between the ages of fourteen and eighteen.
Provisions of parts two and three of this article shall not apply to persons, who committed crimes involving violence against minors except for a case of committing such a crime by a person under the age of majority.
9. If the sanction under a Special Part article of this Code does not provide for any penalty other than life imprisonment, then in the cases provided for by paragraph four of this Article, the person may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of twenty to twenty-five years.
In the same cases, persons who committed the crime before reaching the age of eighteen may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of fifteen years, and women, persons with disabilities of the first or second group, and men aged sixty-three and over may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years.
Footnote.

Section 143. Original section/article: 55. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); от 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (вводится в действие по истечении шестидесяти календарных дней после дня его первого официального опубликования); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 144. Original section/article: 56. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment for uncompleted crime 
1. Consequences by virtue of which a crime was not brought to the end shall be considered upon imposition of punishment for uncompleted crime.
2. The term or extent of punishment for preparation to a crime may not exceed half of the maximum term or extent of the main type of punishment provided by the relevant Article of the Special part of this Code for the completed crime. 
3. The term or extent of punishment for attempted crime may not exceed three quarters of the maximum term or extent of the main type of punishment provided by the relevant Article of the Special part of this Code for the completed crime.
4. Life imprisonment for preparation for a crime and attempted crime shall not be imposed.
In cases where the sanction under a Special Part article of this Code does not provide for any penalty other than life imprisonment, a sentence of imprisonment for a term of twenty-five years shall be imposed.
If the sanction under a Special Part article of this Code does not provide for any penalty other than life imprisonment:
1) with respect to persons who committed the crime before reaching the age of eighteen, in cases of an inchoate offence, the calculation of the term or amount of punishment shall be determined in accordance with the rules established by paragraphs two or three of this Article, taking into account the specific provisions of paragraph seven of

Section 145. Original section/article: 81. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code; 
2) with respect to women, persons with disabilities of the first or second group, and men aged sixty-three and over, in cases of an inchoate offence, the calculation of the term or amount of punishment shall be determined in accordance with the rules established by paragraphs two or three of this Article, taking into account the specific provisions of paragraph 4-1 of

Section 146. Original section/article: 46. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 147. Original section/article: 56. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 148. Original section/article: 57. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment for the criminal infraction, committed in complicity
1. Upon imposition of punishment for the criminal infraction, committed in complicity shall be considered the nature and extent of actual participation of person in its commission, the value of this participation for achievement of an objective of criminal infraction, its impact on the nature and extent of caused or possible harm. 
2. Consequences, mitigating or aggravating the responsibility and punishment, relating to the personality of one of accomplices shall be considered upon imposition of punishment only to this accomplice.

Section 149. Original section/article: 58. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment on a set of criminal infractions
1. On a set of criminal infractions, a court imposed a punishment (basic and additional) for each infraction separately shall determine final punishment by absorption of less severe punishment by more severe or by complete or partial addition of imposed punishments.
2. If a set of criminal infractions includes only criminal offences, then the final punishment shall be imposed by absorbing a less severe punishment with a more severe one or by partial or full adding up of the punishment. In this case, the final extent of punishment in the form of a fine may not exceed four hundred monthly calculation indices, and the final term of punishment in the form of community service or arrest – four hundred hours or fifty days, respectively.
If a set of criminal infractions includes only criminal offences, crimes of little and average gravity, then the final punishment shall be imposed by absorbing a less severe punishment with a more severe one.
3. If a set of criminal infractions involves grievous or especially grave crimes, the final punishment shall be imposed by absorption of less severe punishment by more severe or by partial or complete addition of punishments. Upon that the final punishment in the form of imprisonment may not exceed twenty years.
4. If a set of criminal infractions involves at least one of especially grave crime, for commission of which a punishment in the form of imprisonment for the term up to twenty years is provided by this Code, the final punishment shall be imposed by partial or complete addition of punishments. Upon that the final punishment in the form of imprisonment may not exceed twenty five years.
If a set of criminal infractions involves at least one of especially grave crime, for commission of which a punishment in the form of imprisonment for the term up to twenty years is provided by this Code, as well as a criminal offence, for commission of which a fine is imposed, the final punishment is imposed by absorption of less severe punishment by more severe.
If life imprisonment is imposed for a crime included in the aggregate, then life imprisonment shall be the final penalty imposed.
5. Additional punishments, imposed for infractions, constituting the set may be attached to the basic punishment, imposed on a set of criminal infractions. Upon partial or complete addition the final additional punishment may not exceed the maximum term or extent, established for this punishment of General part of this Code. 
6. A punishment shall be imposed by the rules of this Article, if after sentencing by court of the case it is established that the convicted person is guilty also in other criminal infraction committed by him (her) before the sentencing in the first case. In this case a punishment, served under the first court verdict shall be counted in the final term. 
Footnote.

Section 150. Original section/article: 58. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 151. Original section/article: 59. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment upon repetition of crimes, dangerous repetition of crimes
Upon imposition of punishment at repetition of crimes, dangerous repetition of crimes shall be considered the number, nature and extent of social danger of previously committed crimes, consequence, by virtue of which the correctional treatment of the previous punishment was insufficient, as well as the nature and extent of social danger of subsequent infractions.

Section 152. Original section/article: 60. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment on a set of sentences
1. If the convicted person after sentencing, but before complete serving punishment is committed a new criminal infraction, the court shall partially or completely attach an unserved part of punishment on previous court verdict to the punishment, imposed on the last court verdict.
2. The final punishment on a set of sentences in the case, if it does not related with imprisonment may not exceed the maximum term or extent, provided by General part of this Code for this type of punishment. 
3. The final punishment on a set of sentences in the form of imprisonment may not exceed twenty five years. If a set of sentences involves a sentence, which a person is recognized as guilty in commission at least one especially grave crime, for the commission of which a punishment in the form of imprisonment is provided by this Code for the term up to twenty years, the final punishment on a set of sentences in the form of imprisonment may not exceed thirty years. If life imprisonment is imposed for a crime included in the aggregate, then the final punishment shall be imposed in the form of life imprisonment.
4. The final punishment on a set of sentences shall be more like the punishments, imposed for newly committed criminal infraction, and unserved part of punishment on previous court verdict. 
5. Attachment of additional types of punishments upon imposition of punishments on a set of sentences shall be carried out by the rules of imposition of punishment on a set of criminal infractions.
Footnote.

Section 153. Original section/article: 60. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 154. Original section/article: 61. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Procedure of determination of terms of punishment upon their addition
1. At partial or full adding up of punishments on a set of criminal infractions and a set of verdicts:
1) one day of deprivation of liberty corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works, one day of arrest, one day of restriction of liberty;
2) one day of restriction of liberty corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works, one day of arrest;
3) one day of arrest corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of a fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works;
4) one hour of social works corresponds to one monthly calculation index of fine or corrective labors;
5) one monthly calculation index of corrective labors corresponds to one monthly calculation index of fine.
2. Deprivation of special, military or honorary title, class rank, diplomatic rank, qualified class and the state awards, deprivation of right to hold specific position or engage in defined activity, deportation a foreigner or stateless person from the Republic of Kazakhstan, confiscation of property, as well as enforcement measures of medical nature upon addition them with bringing to public works, restriction of liberty, arrest, imprisonment shall be executed independently. 
Footnote.

Section 155. Original section/article: 61. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 156. Original section/article: 62. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Calculation of periods for punishment and offset of punishment
1. The term of deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity, restriction of liberty, imprisonment shall be calculated in months and years, arrest - in days, community service - in hours.
2. Upon commutation of punishment or addition of punishments, specified in a first part of this Article, as well as upon offset of punishment, the terms may be calculated in days. 
3. The time of detention in custody until a judgment becomes final and binding shall be counted towards the sentence, counting one day as:
1) one day of serving a sentence of imprisonment in a facility of maximum, supermax and complete security;
2) one and a half days of serving a sentence of imprisonment in a medium security facility, and also a medium security facility for juveniles;
3) two days of serving a sentence in a minimum security facility.
3-1. The time of detention in custody until a judgment becomes final and binding shall be counted towards the sentence, counting one day as:
1) one day of serving a sentence in the form of arrest; 
2) two days of serving a sentence in the form of restriction of liberty;
3) four hours of serving a sentence in the form of community service; 
4) four monthly calculation indices of serving a sentence in the form corrective labor, a fine, respectively. 
4. The time of detention under house arrest before the entry of the sentence into legal force shall be included in the term of punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty, restriction of liberty, arrest at the rate of two days for one day, in the form of social works, corrective labors, a fine – at the rate of one day of detention under house arrest for two hours of social works or two monthly calculation indices, respectively.
5. The time of detention of person in custody before entry of court verdict into legal force and the time of service of imprisonment, imposed by court verdict for the crime, committed out of bounds of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the case of extradition of person on the basis of

Section 157. Original section/article: 9. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be included at the rate of one day for one day. 
6. Upon revision of the verdict with imposing to the person of other form of punishment, the served term or executed extent of punishment before the revision of the verdict shall be included in the term or extent of a new punishment. When offsetting the served term or executed extent of punishment:
1) one day of deprivation of liberty corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works, one day of arrest, one day of restriction of liberty;
2) one day of restriction of liberty corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works, one day of arrest;
3) one day of arrest corresponds to four monthly calculation indices of fine or corrective labors, four hours of social works;
4) one hour of social works corresponds to one monthly calculation index of fine or corrective labors;
5) one monthly calculation index of corrective labors corresponds to one monthly calculation index of fine.
7. The time during which compulsory measures of a medical nature were applied to a person who fell ill with a mental, behavioral disorder (disease) after the commission of a crime shall be included in the term or size of the punishment. 
Footnote.

Section 158. Original section/article: 62. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 159. Original section/article: 63. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conditional sentence
1. If a punishment was imposed in the form of imprisonment, a court comes to the conclusion on possibility of correction of convicted person without service of sentence; it decides to consider an imposed punishment as conditional.
2. Upon application of conditional sentence a court shall consider the nature and extent of social danger of committed crime, personality of guilty person, as well as consequences, mitigating and aggravating responsibility and punishment.
3. Upon imposition of conditional sentence a court shall establish probationary control at all of the imposed term of imprisonment, and to the minors for the term of six months to one year by rules of second part of

Section 160. Original section/article: 44. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. 
Application of conditional sentence by the minors is possible upon repeated commission of a crime of little and average gravity in the period of probationary control upon conditional sentence.
Probation control shall not be established in case of conditional conviction of a foreigner or a stateless person to whom the court has imposed expulsion outside the Republic of Kazakhstan as an additional form of punishment.
4. Additional types of restrictions and punishments may be imposed in case of probation. 
5. Enforcement measures of educational impact may be imposed to the minors upon conditional sentence.
6. Conditional sentence shall not be applied to persons in case of recidivism of crimes, dangerous recidivism of crimes, in case of conviction of a person for a particularly grave crime, a corruption crime, a terrorist crime, an extremist crime, torture, a crime committed as part of a criminal group, sexual crime against minors. This restriction shall not apply to minors who have committed a crime against the sexual inviolability of a minor between the ages of fourteen and eighteen.
Footnote.

Section 161. Original section/article: 63. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 162. Original section/article: 64. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cancellation of conditional sentence
1. If before the expiry of the term of probationary control the probationer is proved his (her) correction by his (her) behavior, a court on presentation of body, carrying out a probationary control may decree on cancellation of conditional sentence and on cancellation of conviction from convicted person. Upon that conditional sentence may be cancelled upon expiration of at least half of established period.
2. A court on presentation of the body, carrying out probationary control may extend the term of probationary control, but not more than one year, in the cases, when probationer has committed:
1) administrative infraction, encroaching on the public order and morality, rights of minors, to the personality and in the scope of family relations, for which an administrative penalty was imposed to him (her);
2) intentional damage (deterioration) of electronic follower arrangement or did not come for registration without acceptable reason or changed the place residence without notifying the body carrying out the probationary control;
3) criminal offence.
3. In the case of non-execution by probationer of obligations, assigned to him (her) by court or repeated commission by probationer of violations, specified in a second part of this Article, a court on presentation of body, specified in a first part of this Article shall regulate on cancellation of conditional sentence and execution of imposed punishment by court verdict, and in relation of convicted minor may repeatedly extend the term of probationary control, but not more than one year.
4. In the cases of commission by probationer of a crime by negligence during the term of probationary control or intentional crime of little gravity, and by the juvenile probationers – the crimes of little of average gravity, an issue on cancellation or on preservation of conditional sentence shall be decided by the court upon imposition of punishment for the new crime.
5. In the cases of commission by probationer of intentional crime of average gravity, grievous or especially grave crime during the term of probationary control, and by the minors - grievous or especially grave crime, a court may cancel a conditional sentence and impose him (her) a punishment by the rules of imposition of punishment on a set of sentences.

Section 163. Original section/article: 5. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
RELEASE FROM CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PUNISHMENT

Section 164. Original section/article: 65. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility in connection of active repentance
1. A person, who committed a criminal offence or committed a crime for the first time, may be released from criminal liability taking into account the identity of a guilty person, his/her acknowledgement of guilt, his/her assistance in solving, investigating the criminal offence, his/her expiation for the harm caused by the criminal offence.
A person, who committed a corruption crime for the first time, may be released from criminal liability in connection with his/her active repentance only by court.
2. The provisions of part one of this Article shall not be applied to the persons, who have committed a terroristic crime, an extremist crime, a crime committed as part of a criminal group, a crime against sexual immunity of minors, torture, a grave or especially grave crime against a person, except in cases specially provided by the relevant Articles of the Special part of this Code. This restriction shall not be applied to the minors, who have committed a crime against the sexual immunity of a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years.
Footnote.

Section 165. Original section/article: 65. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 166. Original section/article: 66. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility upon use of excessive force in self-defense
A person, used of excessive force in self-defense due to the fear, fright or confusion, caused by socially-dangerous infringement may be released from criminal responsibility in recognition of consequence of the case.

Section 167. Original section/article: 67. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal liability and serving of the sentence upon compliance with the terms of a procedural cooperation agreement
Footnote. The title of

Section 168. Original section/article: 67. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. A person, who has fulfilled all conditions of the procedural cooperation agreement, may be released from criminal responsibility or serving of the sentence.
2. The provision of part one of this Article shall not be applied to the persons, who have committed crimes against sexual immunity of minors, except in cases of commission of such a crime by a minor in respect of a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years.
Footnote.

Section 169. Original section/article: 67. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 170. Original section/article: 67-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Exemption from criminal liability upon fulfillment of the terms of the procedural agreement on admission of guilt and return of illegally acquired assets 
A person who has fulfilled all the conditions of the procedural agreement on admission of guilt and return of illegally acquired assets may be released from criminal liability.
Footnote.

Section 171. Original section/article: 67-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 172. Original section/article: 68. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility in connection with conciliation
1. A person committed a criminal offence or a crime of little or average gravity, not related with cause death shall subject to release from criminal responsibility, if he (she) is reconciled with injured person, applicant, as well as according to the procedure of mediation, and expiated a caused harm.
2. Minors, pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child, men raising a minor child alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, and men aged sixty-three and over, who have committed a grievous crime for the first time that is not connected with the causing of death or serious harm to a person's health, may be exempt from criminal liability if they have reconciled with the victim or the private prosecutor, including through mediation, and have remedied the harm caused. Enforcement measures of educational impact may be applied to the minor upon release from criminal responsibility.
3. In the cases when a harm is caused by criminal infraction to the interests of society and the state, protected by the Law, a person specified in a first or second part of this Article may be released from criminal responsibility, if he (she) sincerely repentance and expiated a harm, caused to the interests of society and the state, protected by the Law.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not be applied to persons who committed: 
1) torture;
2) crimes against sexual inviolability of minors, unless such a crime was committed by a person under the age of majority against a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years;
2-1) crimes involving violence against minors, except for the case of committing such a crime by a person under the age of majority;
3) crimes through negligence, which caused the death of a person or the death of two or more persons, except for a traffic accident, which, through negligence, resulted in the death of his/her close relatives, spouse; 
4) a corruption crime;
5) a crime of terrorism;
6) an extremist crime;
7) a crime as part of a criminal group;
8) within the period of limitations on criminal prosecutions established by part one of

Section 173. Original section/article: 71. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, a deliberate crime after being released from criminal liability for a crime committed earlier due to the reconciliation of parties;
9) a criminal infraction provided for in articles 108-1 and 109-1 of this Code, within the period of limitation of bringing to criminal liability established by part one of

Section 174. Original section/article: 71. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, after release from criminal liability in connection with reconciliation of the parties for a previously committed criminal infraction.
10) crimes related to human trafficking.
Footnote.

Section 175. Original section/article: 68. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 176. Original section/article: 69. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Surety-secured release from punishment 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 177. Original section/article: 69. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
1. A person, who committed a criminal offence for the first time or a minor or medium-gravity crime without causing death or grievous bodily harm, for the commission of which a relevant article or part of an article of the Special Part of this Code provides for a fine among other types of basic punishments, may be released from punishment by court if secured by the surety.
2. The surety securing means the posting of security equal to the maximum size of a fine prescribed for a criminal offence committed.
3. The term of a guarantee shall be established:
1) upon commission of criminal offence - from six months to one year;
2) upon commission of a crime of little gravity - from one year to two years;
3) upon commission of a crime of average gravity - from two to five years.
4. The security shall be returned to the surety upon the expiration of the security period if the person released from punishment did not commit a new criminal offence during it.
5. If the person commits a new criminal offence during the security period, the court cancels its decision on the exemption from punishment and imposes the punishment on him/her based on the rules for accumulative sentencing. In this case, the security becomes state property. 
6. Provision of this Article shall not be applied to the persons, committed a corruption crime, crime of terrorism, extremist crime, the crime committed in a composition of criminal group, crimes against sexual immunity of minors.
Footnote.

Section 178. Original section/article: 69. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 179. Original section/article: 70. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility in connection with the change of conditions
1. A person, committed a criminal infraction shall subject to release by court from criminal responsibility, if he (she) is recognized that during investigation of the case in a court due to change of conditions, an action, committed by him (her) ceased to be socially dangerous.
2. A person first committed a criminal offence of little or average gravity shall subject to release by court from criminal responsibility, if it is established that by virtue of subsequent irreproachable conduct this person during investigation of the case in a court may not be considered as socially dangerous.

Section 180. Original section/article: 71. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility in connection with expiry of the period of limitation
1. A person shall be released from criminal responsibility, if from the date of commission of criminal infraction the following terms have expired:
1) one year after commission of criminal offence;
2) two years after commission of a crime of little gravity;
3) five years after commission of a crime of average gravity;
4) ten years after commission of a grave crime, corruption crime of little or average gravity;
5) fifteen years after commission of an especially grave crime.
2. Period of limitations shall be calculated from the date of commission of criminal infraction and up to the moment of entry of sentence into legal force.
3. Validity of period of limitations on criminal offences independent from commission of a new criminal infraction shall not be suspended and terminated.
4. Validity of period of limitations shall be suspended, if a person, committed a crime evades from investigation and court. In this case validity of period of limitations recommences from the date of detention of a person or acknowledgement of guilt. Upon that a person may not be brought to the criminal responsibility, if from the date of commission of a crime validity was not revived and the following terms have expired:
1) five years after commission of a crime of little gravity;
2) ten years after commission of a crime of average gravity;
3) fifteen years after commission of a grave crime, corruption crime of little or average gravity;
4) twenty years after commission of an especially grave crime.
Limitation period shall be interrupted if, before the expiry of the terms, specified in part one of this Article, a person who has committed a grave or especially grave crime, commits a new grave or especially grave crime. In such cases, calculation of the limitation period begins anew from the date of commission of a new crime. In other cases, if the person commits the crime again before the expiration of the limitation period, the limitation period for each crime expires independently.
4-1. The running of the limitation period is suspended from the moment of receipt by the court or the body of criminal prosecution of a petition for the conclusion of a procedural agreement on the admission of guilt and the return of illegally acquired assets from the suspect, the accused, the defendant or his defender until its full execution.
If one of the parties refuses to conclude a procedural agreement on the admission of guilt and the return of illegally acquired assets, the limitation period is resumed.
5. The issue of applying the statute of limitations to a person who has committed a crime for which life imprisonment may be imposed under this Code shall be resolved by the court. If the court does not find it possible to release a person from criminal liability due to the expiration of the statute of limitations, then life imprisonment shall be replaced by twenty-five years’ imprisonment term.
6. Limitation periods shall not be applied to the persons who committed crimes against the peace and security of mankind, terroristic crimes, extremist crimes, torture, crimes against sexual immunity of minors, as well as especially grave crimes against the person, the foundations of constitutional system and security of the state, against public security and public order.
Footnote.

Section 181. Original section/article: 71. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 182. Original section/article: 72. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conditionally early release from service of sentence
1. A person, serving restriction of liberty or imprisonment, after actual service of terms, specified in the third, fourth and fifth part of this Article may be released on probation – on parole by court, if it is recognized by court that he (she) does not need a full serving of sentence for his (her) correction.
A person, serving restriction of liberty or imprisonment, after actual service of terms, specified in the third, fourth and fifth part of this Article shall subject to release on probation – on parole in the case of full compensation by them of damage, caused by crime and absence of gross violations of established procedure of service of sentence.
A person, serving of imprisonment, imposed for terroristic or extremist crime, but resulting loss of life and linked with commission of especially grave crime, after actual service of terms, specified in the third, fourth and fifth part of this Article may be released on probation – on parole by court, if he (she) actively assists in prevention, detection or investigation of terroristic or extremist crimes, exposure of participants of terroristic or extremist group.
Pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child, men raising a minor child alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, and men aged sixty-three and over, persons with disabilities of first or second, serving sentences of imprisonment for a grievous or especially grave corruption crime may be granted parole by the court after having actually served the terms specified in paragraphs three and five of this Article.
A person serving a prison term for a grave and especially grave corruption crime, who has fulfilled all the conditions of a procedural agreement on cooperation, after the actual serving of the terms specified in parts three and five of this article, may be released by the court on parole.
Upon that a person may be completely or partially released from service of additional type of sentence.
2. Probationary control shall be established in respect of person, released on probation – on parole by court from service of sentence in the form of imprisonment, during remaining unserved part of punishment, by the rules of second part of

Section 183. Original section/article: 44. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code. In the event of parole of a person sentenced to life imprisonment, probation supervision shall be established for a period of ten years. Obligations, provided by Penal Execution Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be also entrusted to the person upon application of conditionally early release. 
Probation control shall not be established in case of release on parole of a foreigner or a stateless person, to whom the court imposed the expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan as an additional form of punishment.
3. Conditionally early release may be applied only after actual service by the convicted person:
1) not less than one third of punishment, imposed for the crime of little or average gravity;
2) not less than half of the term of punishment for grievous crime;
3) at least two-thirds of the sentence imposed for a grievous crime involving an attack on human life or health, or an especially grave crime;
3-1) at least two-thirds of the remaining unserved term if the earlier release on parole was cancelled on the grounds provided for by paragraphs 1) and 2) of part seven of this article; 
4) not less than three-quarters of the term of punishment, if the previously applied conditional early release was canceled on the grounds provided for in paragraph 3) of part seven of this Article;
5) at least one quarter of the sentence imposed for the crime of minor or medium gravity, or at least one third of the sentence imposed for a grievous crime, or at least half of the sentence imposed for a grievous crime involving an attack on human life or health, or an especially grave crime, or at least three-quarters of the sentence imposed for an especially grave crime involving an attack on human life or health, if the convicted person has fulfilled all the conditions of the procedural agreement.
4. Early release on parole may be applied to pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child, men raising minor children alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, men aged sixty-three and over, persons with the first or second disability groups after they actually served the term in the event of:
1) not less than one-fourth of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for the crime of little or average gravity;
2) not less than one-third of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for the grievous crime;
3) not less than a half of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for especially grave crime, not linked with infringement on human life, as well as if previously applied conditionally early release was cancelled on the grounds, provided by paragraphs 1) and 2) of seventh part of this Article;
4) not less than two-thirds of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for especially grave crime, linked with infringement on human life, or the crimes provided by paragraph 3) and 5) of third part of

Section 184. Original section/article: 120. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and paragraphs 3) and 5) of third part of

Section 185. Original section/article: 121. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, as well as if previously applied conditionally early release was cancelled on the grounds, provided by paragraph 3) of seventh part of this Article;
5) at least one fifth of the sentence imposed for the crime of minor or medium gravity, or at least one quarter of the term of punishment imposed for a grievous crime, or at least one third of the term of punishment imposed for an especially grave crime if the convicted person has fulfilled all the conditions of the procedural agreement.
5. The term of imprisonment, actually served by convicted person may not be less than six months.
6. A person, serving a life imprisonment, imposed by the court may be released on probation – on parole, if a court recognizes that he (she) does not need further serving of sentence and actually served not less than twenty five years of imprisonment.
In the case if a person, serving a life imprisonment, imposed by the court, fulfilled all the conditions of procedural agreement, he (she) may be released on probation – on parole after actual service not less than fifteen years of imprisonment. 
7. If during remaining unserved part of punishment a person, to whom conditionally early release is applied, committed:
1) two or more administrative infractions, for which administrative sanctions were imposed to him (her), or evaded without acceptable reason from performance of obligations, entrusted to him (her) upon application of conditionally early release more than two times, or did not come for registration without acceptable reason on chosen place of residence during five business days after release from the places of detention, a court on presentation of the authorized state body may decree on cancellation of conditionally early release and execution of remaining unserved part of punishment;
2) In the event of a crime of negligence, as well as in cases of the commission of a criminal misdemeanor or an intentional crime of minor gravity by a pregnant woman, a woman who has or is raising a minor child, a man raising a minor child alone, a woman aged fifty-eight or over, a man aged sixty-three or over, or a person with a first or second category disability, the question of the revocation or continuation of parole shall be decided by the court when sentencing for the new offense. If the court revokes parole, the punishment shall be imposed in accordance with the rules for imposing punishment for multiple convictions;
3) for an intentional crime, except for the cases specified in paragraph 2) of this part, the court revokes the conditional early release and imposes a sentence in accordance with the rules for imposing sentences for multiple convictions.
8. Parole does not apply to persons: 
1) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); 
2) convicted of a terrorist or extremist crime that resulted in the death of people or associated with the commission of a particularly serious crime;
3) convicted for a grave and especially grave corruption crime, with the exception of:
cases of such crimes committed by pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child, men who are raising a minor child alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, men aged sixty-three and over, persons with first or second group disabilities;
convicts who have fulfilled all the conditions of the procedural agreement on cooperation;
4) convicted of a crime against the sexual inviolability of minors, except for the case when such a crime is committed by a person who has not reached the age of majority in relation to a minor aged fourteen to eighteen years of age;
5) convicted of intentionally causing the death of a person as part of a criminal group, except in cases where such crimes are committed by pregnant women, women who have or are raising a minor child, men who are raising a minor child alone, women aged fifty-eight and over, men aged sixty-three and over, persons with first or second group disabilities;
6) convicted persons whose sentence of imprisonment has been replaced by restriction of liberty in accordance with

Section 186. Original section/article: 73. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code;
7) previously conditionally released from serving a life sentence;
8) who committed a new grievous or especially grave crime while serving a life sentence;
9) convicted of torture.
Footnote.

Section 187. Original section/article: 72. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 188. Original section/article: 73. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Commutation of unserved part of punishment by the more lenient type of punishment or reduction of term of imposed punishment
1. A person, serving imprisonment for the crime of little, average gravity or grievous crime, in the case of full compensation by them of damage, caused by crime and absence of gross violations of established procedure of service of sentence, remaining unserved part of punishment may be commuted by more lenient type of punishment. Upon that a person may be completely or partially released from service of additional type of punishment, except for the punishments, imposed for life.
In the event that the court replaces the remaining unserved portion of the sentence with restriction of liberty, the term of its calculation is regulated by the Penal Execution Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The unserved portion of the sentence may be replaced by a more lenient form of punishment after the convicted person has actually served at least one-fourth of the sentence for committing a minor or moderate offense, one-third of the sentence for a grievous crime, half of the sentence imposed for a grievous crime involving an attack on human life or health.
Replacing the unserved part of a sentence with a milder type of punishment does not apply to persons convicted of a crime against sexual inviolability of minors unless such a crime was committed by a minor against a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years, a terrorist or extremist crime that resulted in human deaths or related with the commission of an especially grave crime, as well as a crime committed as part of a criminal group. A person serving a prison sentence imposed for a terrorist or extremist crime that did not result in the death of people and was not accompanied by the commission of an especially grave crime, after the actual serving of the terms specified in the first paragraph of this part, the remaining unserved part of the sentence may be replaced by the court with a more lenient type of punishment if such a person actively assists in the prevention, detection, or investigation of terrorist or extremist crimes, or in exposing members of a terrorist or extremist group.
With regard to foreigners and stateless persons, the unserved part of a sentence may be replaced only with a fine, with or without expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2-1. In case of cancellation of the release on parole from serving a sentence of imprisonment, the terms specified in part two of this article shall be calculated on the basis of the remaining unserved part of the sentence, and in case of accumulative sentencing – in the manner prescribed by paragraphs 2) and 3) of part seven of

Section 189. Original section/article: 72. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, based on the final sentence imposed. 
3. Upon commutation of unserved part of punishment, a court may choose a fine at the rate of one monthly calculation index for four days of imprisonment or restriction of liberty at the rate of one day of restriction of liberty for one day of imprisonment. Full compensation of damage, caused by the crime shall be condition of commutation to the fine. 
4. A person serving a prison sentence for minor, medium, grievous, or especially grave crimes, if during the period of serving their sentence they contributed to the disclosure and investigation of crimes committed by a criminal group, or fulfilled all the conditions of a procedural agreement, the remaining part of the sentence may be reduced by the court by no more than half, for a serious crime involving an attack on human life or health, by no more than one third, and for an especially grave crime involving an attack on human life or health, by no more than one quarter. Reduction of the unserved part of the sentence shall not be applied to persons convicted of a crime against the sexual inviolability of minors, except in the case of the commission of such a crime by a minor against a minor between fourteen and eighteen years of age.
Footnote.

Section 190. Original section/article: 73. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 191. Original section/article: 74. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Reprieve of service of sentence to the pregnant women and women who have or are raising a minor child, men who are raising a minor child alone 
Footnote. Title of

Section 192. Original section/article: 74. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. A court may reprieve a service of sentence to convicted pregnant women of up to one year. The court shall grant convicted women who have or are raising a minor child, and men who are raising a minor child alone, a reprieve of up to five years, but not longer than until the child reaches the age of fourteen. Pregnant women and women who have or are raising a minor child, men who are raising a minor child alone, persons sentenced to imprisonment for more than five years for serious or particularly serious crimes against the person, terrorist crimes, extremist crimes, crimes committed as part of a criminal group, crimes against the sexual integrity of minors, shall not be granted a deferral of sentence.
2. In the cases, if convicted person, specified in a first part of this Article is abandoned child or continues to evade from child-rearing or violate public order after twofold written warning, rendered by the body, carrying out control for convicted person, in relation of which service of sentence is reprieved, a court on presentation of this body may cancel reprieve of service of sentence and direct convicted person for service of sentence to the place, appointed in accordance with court verdict.
3. Upon expiration of the term of reprieve of execution of punishment in the cases of death of a child or termination of pregnancy, a court may release him (her) from service of sentence or commute an imposed punishment by more lenient type of punishment or make decision on direction of convicted person to the relevant institution for service of sentence.
4. If convicted person commits a new crime in the period of reprieve of service of sentence, a court shall impose him (her) a punishment by the rules of imposition of punishment on a set of sentences.
Footnote.

Section 193. Original section/article: 74. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 194. Original section/article: 75. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from punishment or suspension of punishment due to illness
Footnote. The heading of

Section 195. Original section/article: 75. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. A person who after commission of criminal infraction suffered from mental disease, denying the opportunity to realize actual nature and social danger of his (her) actions (omission) or control them shall be released from punishment by court, and person, serving a sentence shall be released from his (her) further service by court. Compulsory measures of a medical nature, provided by this Code may impose to such persons.
2. A person who suffers from another serious illness that prevents the serving of a prison sentence, except for life imprisonment, may be released by a court from serving the sentence, or he or she may be released by the court from serving the sentence, or the punishment may be replaced by a more lenient punishment, given the nature of the disease, the gravity of the criminal offense committed, personality of the convicted person and other circumstances.
3. Persons, specified in the first and second part of this Article, in the case of their recovery shall subject to a criminal responsibility and punishment, if the periods of limitations of bringing to a criminal responsibility or guilty verdict are not expired.
4. Postponement of serving a sentence shall not be applied to persons convicted of a sexual crime against minors, with the exception of the case when such a crime is committed by a minor against a minor between the ages of fourteen and eighteen, a terrorist or extremist crime that caused the death of people or is associated with the commission of a specially grave crime, as well as a crime committed as part of a criminal group.
Footnote.

Section 196. Original section/article: 75. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 197. Original section/article: 76. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from punishment and reprieve of service of sentence due to set of grave circumstances
1. A person, convicted for a criminal offence or crime of little and average gravity may be released from punishment by court, if the consequences, resulting especially grave consequences for his (her) family due to fire or natural disaster, serious illness or death of the only employable member of the family or other emergency circumstances are occurred. 
2. The court may reprieve service of punishment up to three months upon existence of grounds, specified in part one of this Article, to the person convicted to deprivation of liberty for a grave or an especially grave crime, except for the persons convicted for terroristic or extremist crime, or crime committed as part of a criminal group or against sexual immunity of minors. 
The restriction in the deferral of serving a punishment shall not be applied to the minors in case of commission a crime in respect of a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years.
Footnote.

Section 198. Original section/article: 76. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 199. Original section/article: 77. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from service of sentence in connection with expiration of the period of limitations of guilty verdict
1. A person, convicted for the criminal infraction shall be released from service of sentence, if guilty verdict was not executed in the following terms, considering from the date of entry its entry into force:
1) one year upon conviction for a criminal offence;
2) two years in case of conviction for a crime of little gravity;
3) five years in case of conviction for a crime of average gravity;
4) ten years upon conviction for the grievous crime;
5) fifteen years upon conviction for especially grave crime.
2. Validity period of limitations on criminal offences independent from commission of a new criminal infraction shall not be suspended and terminated.
3. The limitation period for crimes shall be suspended if the convicted person evades serving the punishment. In this case, the limitation period shall be renewed from the moment of detention of the person or his/her surrender. The limitation periods which have expired by the time of evasion of the convicted from serving the punishment, shall be subject to offset. However, a conviction may not be carried out if twenty years have elapsed since its issuance and the limitation period has not been interrupted by commission of a new crime. In case of deferment of serving the punishment, the period of limitation shall be suspended until the expiration of the limitation period.
4. Validity period of limitations on the crimes shall be terminated, if before expiration of the terms, specified in a first period of this Article a person commits a new intentional crime. In these cases calculation of period of limitations begins anew from the date of commission of a new crime.
5. The issue of applying the statute of limitations to a person sentenced to life imprisonment shall be decided by the court. If the court does not find it possible to apply the statute of limitations, life imprisonment shall be replaced by twenty-five years' imprisonment term. The periods of limitation shall not be applied to the persons convicted for commission of crimes against sexual immunity of minors, except for the case of commission of such a crime by a minor in respect of a minor aged between fourteen to eighteen, against peace and security of mankind, corruption crimes, terroristic crimes, extremist crimes, torture, as well as especially grave crimes against the person, the foundations of constitutional system and state security.
Footnote.

Section 200. Original section/article: 77. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 201. Original section/article: 78. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release from criminal responsibility and punishment on the basis of an act of amnesty or pardon
1. An act of amnesty shall be issued by the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation of individually undetermined set of people.
The conditions and procedure for the application of amnesty shall be established by the act of amnesty.
2. On the basis of an act of amnesty, the persons, who have convicted criminal infractions may be released from criminal responsibility and punishment, or the punishment imposed on them may be reduced or replaced by a more lenient form of punishment, or such persons may be exempted from additional punishment. A conviction may be released by an act of amnesty from the persons, served a sentence or convicted from its further service.
An act of amnesty shall not be applied to the persons, who committed crimes against sexual immunity of minors, except for the case of commission of such a crime by a minor in respect of a minor aged between fourteen and eighteen years, terroristic crimes, extremist crimes, torture, as well as the punishment to whom is imposed in case of recidivism or dangerous recidivism of crimes.
3. An act of pardon of individually defined person, in relation of whom a guilty verdict is entered into legal force, and equally the persons, serving or served a sentence in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as imposed by court verdict of foreign state shall be issued by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. Upon pardon a person, convicted for the crime may be released from further service of sentence or his (her) imposed punishment may be commuted by more lenient type of punishment, or such person may be released from additional type of punishment. A conviction may be released by act of pardon from the person, served a sentence or convicted from its further service.
Footnote.

Section 202. Original section/article: 78. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 203. Original section/article: 79. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conviction
1. A person, convicted for commission of a crime shall be considered to be judged from the date of entry of guilty verdict into legal force until the moment of cancellation or release. Conviction shall be considered upon determination of repetition of crimes, dangerous repetition of crimes and upon imposition of crime in accordance with this Code. 
2. A person, convicted from punishment, as well as convicted from commission of a criminal offence shall be recognized as not having conviction.
3. Conviction shall be cancelled:
1) in relation of persons, conditionally convicted, - upon expiration of the term of probationary control;
2) in relation of persons, convicted to more lenient types of punishments, than imprisonment,- on the actual service of sentence;
3) in relation of persons, convicted to imprisonment for the crime of little or average gravity, - upon expiration of three years after service of sentence;
4) in relation of persons, convicted to imprisonment for grievous, - upon expiration of six years after service of sentence;
5) в in relation of persons, convicted to imprisonment for grievous crimes, related to an attempt on the life or health of a person, or for especially grave crimes, – upon expiration of eight years of service of sentence;
5-1) with regard to persons sentenced to imprisonment for especially grave crimes involving an attempt on the life or health of a person – ten years after serving their sentence.
4. If convicted person was early released from service of sentence in the manner established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan or unserved part of punishment is commuted by more lenient type of punishment, the term of cancellation of conviction shall be calculated on the basis of actually served term of sentence from the date of release from service of basic and additional types of punishments.
5. If an additional punishment is imposed to the person on a court verdict together with basic punishment, the term of cancellation of conviction shall be calculated from the date of service of basic and additional types of punishments.
In the cases of imposition of additional punishment in the form of deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the life term, the term of cancellation of conviction shall be calculated from the date of service of the basic type of punishments.
6. Upon conviction of person on a set of criminal infractions or on a set of sentences for the crime, relating to the different extent of gravity, convictions shall be cancelled for each crime independently, upon that the terms of cancellation shall be calculated from the date of service of sentence on a set of criminal infractions or set of sentences.
7. If convicted person after service of sentence behaved impeccably, on his (her) application a court may release conviction from him (her) before expiration of the term of cancellation of conviction. 
This regulation shall not be applied to the persons, convicted to imprisonment for grievous or especially grave crimes, as well as a punishment to whom is imposed upon repetition of crimes or dangerous repetition of crimes.
8. Validity period, cancelling conviction shall be suspended if the convicted person again committed a crime before expiration of the term of cancellation of conviction. The term of cancellation of conviction on a first crime shall be calculated anew after actual service of basic and additional types of punishments for the last crime. In these cases a person shall be considered to be convicted for both crimes before expiration of the term of cancellation of conviction for more grievous of them.
9. Expunction of a criminal record shall annul all the penal consequences provided for by this Code, with the exception of restrictions established by an additional type of punishment imposed for life, and the case provided for by part ten of this article.
10. Expunction of a criminal record shall not be taken into account when determining the type of penitentiary institution by the court.
Footnote.

Section 204. Original section/article: 79. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 205. Original section/article: 6. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY OF MINORS

Section 206. Original section/article: 80. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Criminal responsibility of minors
1. The minors to whom an action of this section is applied shall be recognized as persons that reached the age of fourteen, but did not reach the age of eighteen at the moment of commission of criminal infraction.
2. A punishment may be imposed to the minors, committed a criminal infraction or the compulsory measures of educational impact may be applied to them.

Section 207. Original section/article: 81. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Types of punishments, imposed to the minors
1. Types of punishments, imposed to the minors shall be:
1) deprivation of the right to engage in certain activity;
2) a fine;
3) correctional labour;
4) community service;
5) restriction of liberty;
6) imprisonment.
2. Deprivation of the right to engage in certain activity shall be imposed to the minors for the term of one year up to two years.
3. A fine shall be imposed only if the convicted minor has independent earnings or property to which the penalty may be levied. A fine is imposed in the amount of five to one hundred monthly calculation indices.
4. Corrective labors shall be imposed to the minors, having independent earnings or other permanent income in the amount of five to one hundred monthly calculation indices. 
5. Community services shall be imposed for a term of ten to seventy-five hours, is in the performance of works, feasible for a minor, and is performed by them in their free time from study or basic work. The duration of execution of this type of punishment by the persons under the age of sixteen may not exceed two hours a day, and by the persons at the age of sixteen to eighteen – three hours a day.
6. Restriction of liberty shall be imposed to the minors for the term up to two years, and in the case of commutation of unserved part of punishment in the form of imprisonment by restriction of liberty – for the whole period of remaining unserved part of punishment.
7. An imprisonment may be imposed to the minors for the term not exceeding ten years, and for murder upon aggravating circumstances or an act of terrorism or on a set of criminal infractions, one of which is murder upon aggravating circumstances or an act of terrorism, - twelve years. An imprisonment shall not be imposed to the minors, committed a crime of little gravity or a crime of average gravity, not related with cause death. 
If the sanction of an article of the Special Part of this Code does not provide for any other type of punishment except life imprisonment, a minor shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years.
8. Deprivation of liberty by the convicted minors shall be served in institutions of the medium-security penal system for the maintenance of minors
9. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.04.2017 № 58-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
10. A court may give instructions to the body, executing a punishment, on a record upon treatment of convicted minor of certain features of his (her) personality.
Footnote.

Section 208. Original section/article: 81. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 18.04.2017 № 58-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 209. Original section/article: 82. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment to the minor
1. Upon imposition of punishment to the minor, except for the circumstances, provided by

Section 210. Original section/article: 52. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be considered conditions of his (her) life and education, level of mental development, other futures of personality, as well as influence on him of older persons.
2. The minor age shall be considered as mitigating circumstance in a set with mitigating and aggravating circumstances.

Section 211. Original section/article: 83. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release of minors from criminal responsibility and punishment
1. A minor, convicted a criminal offence or crime of little gravity or first committed a crime of average gravity may be released by court from a criminal responsibility, if it is established that his (her) correction is possible without bringing to criminal responsibility. When a minor is released from criminal liability, coercive measures of educational impact shall be applied to him/her.
2. A minor, first convicted for commission of criminal offence or crime of little or average gravity may be released by court from a punishment, if it is recognized that his (her) correction may be reached by application of compulsory measures of educational impact.
3. A minor who has committed a grave crime for the first time, not related with causing death or grave harm to human health, may be released from criminal liability by the court in the cases provided by part two of

Section 212. Original section/article: 68. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 213. Original section/article: 83. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 214. Original section/article: 84. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The compulsory measures of educational impact
1. The following compulsory measures of educational impact may be imposed to the minor:
1) warning;
2) transfer under supervision of parents or persons, substituting them or specialized state body;
3) assignment of obligations to effect a caused harm;
4) restriction of leisure and establishment of special requirements to behavior of the minor; 
5) placement to the educational organization with special regime of detention;
6) assignment of obligations to make apologies to suffered person;
7) establishment of probationary control.
2. Simultaneously several compulsory measures of educational impact may be imposed to the minor.

Section 215. Original section/article: 85. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Detention and terms of application of compulsory measures of educational impact
1. Warning is explanation of harm, caused by his (her) action to the minors, and consequences of repeated commission of crimes, provided by this Code.
2. Transfer under supervision is assignment of obligations on educational impact to the minor and control of his (her) behavior to the parents or persons, substituting them or specialized state body.
3. An obligation to effect the caused harm shall be imposed in recognition of property position of minors and existence of their relevant work skills.
4. Restriction of leisure and establishment of special requirements to behavior of the minor may provide prohibition of visit definite places, use of certain forms of leisure, as well as related with drive motor vehicles, restriction of presence outside after a certain time of day, travel to other localities without the of specialized state body. Requirement to return to the educational institution, continue or finish education or obtain employment with the help of specialized state body may be also specified to the minor. This list is not exhaustive.
5. Premises in the educational organization with special regime of detention for the term up of six months to two years may be imposed by court to the minor, convicted an intentional crime of average gravity or grievous crime. Stay in these organizations may be terminated earlier in connection with attaining by person majority, as well as if on the basis of conclusion of the specialized state body, providing correction, a court finds that the minor for his correction in the future does not need to apply such measures.
6. Extension of the stay in educational organization with special regime of detention after expiration of the term, provided by the fifth part of this Article shall be allowed only in the case of necessity to finish general education or professional training of the minor, but no more than before attaining by him(her) majority.
7. Procedure and condition of stay of the minors in the educational organizations with special regime of detention shall be determined by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8. A minor gives individual apologies to the injured person for caused harm.
9. Probationary control shall be established for the term of one year by the rules of second part of

Section 216. Original section/article: 44. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
10. The term of application of compulsory measures of educational impact, provided by paragraphs 2) and 4) of first part of

Section 217. Original section/article: 84. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be established by duration up to six months upon commission of a criminal offence, from six months to one year upon commission of a crime of little gravity, from one year to two years upon commission of a crime of average gravity and from two years to three years upon commission of grievous crime.
11. In the case of intentional non-execution of enforcement measure of educational impact two and more times during a year by the minor, this measure on presentation of the specialized state body shall be cancelled by court and materials are directed for bringing of the minor to a criminal responsibility, if the period of limitations of bringing to a criminal responsibility did nor expired.

Section 218. Original section/article: 86. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Conditionally early release of the minors from service of sentence
1. Persons, convicted to imprisonment, restriction of liberty or correctional works for commission of a crime as c minor, in the case of absence of gross violations of the established procedure of service or execution of sentence shall subject to conditionally early release after actual service or execution:
1) not less than one-fourth of the term or extent of punishment, imposed by the court for a crime of little or average gravity;
2) not less than one-third of the term or extent of punishment, imposed by the court for grievous crime;
3) not less than a half of the term of punishment, imposed by court for especially grave crime, not linked with infringement to human life;
4)not less than two-third of the term of punishment, imposed by court for especially grave crime, linked with infringement to human life.
2. In the cases of commission of a crime by negligence, intentional criminal offence or intentional crime of little gravity by conditionally early convicted person during the term of probationary control, an issue on cancellation or on preservation of conditionally early release shall be decided by court upon imposition of punishment for the new crime. If a court cancels conditionally early release, a punishment shall be imposed by the rules of imposition of punishment on a set of sentences.
3. In the cases of commission of intentional crime of average gravity, grievous or especially grave crime by conditionally early convicted person during the term of probationary control, a court shall cancel conditionally early release and impose punishment by the rules of imposition of punishment on a set of sentences.

Section 219. Original section/article: 87. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Commutation of unserved part of punishment by the minor
1. Persons, serving imprisonment for commission of a crime as c minor, in the absence of gross violations of the established procedure of service of sentence, their remaining unserved part of punishment shall be commuted by court by restriction of liberty after actual service:
1) not less than one-fifth of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for the crime of little or average gravity;
2) one-fourth of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for grievous crime;
3) one-third of the term of punishment, imposed by the court for especially grave crime, not linked with infringement on human life;
4) a half of the term of punishment, imposed by court for especially grave crime, linked with infringement on human life.
2. Commutation of unserved part of punishment may be applied to the persons, convicted for commission of a crime as a minor in the composition of criminal group.
Footnote.

Section 220. Original section/article: 87. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
has been amended in the Kazakh language, the English text does not change in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (effective after ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 221. Original section/article: 88. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Period of limitations
Period of limitations of bringing to a criminal responsibility or guilty verdict upon release of minors from criminal responsibility or service of sentence shall be reduced by half.

Section 222. Original section/article: 89. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Terms of cancellation of conviction
For the persons, convicted the crime before reaching the age of eighteen, the terms of cancellation of conviction, provided by

Section 223. Original section/article: 79. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be reduced and respectively equal to:
1) actual serving of a more lenient types of punishment than deprivation of liberty;
2) one year after service of imprisonment for the crime of little or average gravity;
3) two years after service of imprisonment for grievous crime;
4) three years after service of imprisonment for especially grave crime.
Footnote.

Section 224. Original section/article: 89. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 225. Original section/article: 90. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application of provisions of this section to the persons between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one years
In the exceptional cases in recognition of nature of committed crime and identity, a court may apply provisions of this section to the person, committed a crime between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one years, except for the placement them in the educational organizations with a special regime of detention.

Section 226. Original section/article: 7. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
COMPULSORY MEASURES OF A MEDICAL NATURE. OTHER MEASURES OF CRIMINAL AND LEGAL IMPACT
Footnote. The title of

Section 227. Original section/article: 7. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.01.2018 № 132-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2018).

Section 228. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Grounds of application of compulsory measures of medical nature
1. Compulsory measures of medical nature may be applied by court to the persons:
1) committed the actions, provided by Articles of Special part of this Code, in a condition of irresponsibility;
2) who suffered from mental disease after commission of criminal infraction, making it impossible of imposition or execution of punishment;
3) committed a criminal infraction and suffering with mental disease, not excluding mental capacity;
4) those who have committed a criminal offense and are recognized as needing treatment for mental, behavioral disorders (diseases) associated with the use of psychoactive substances;
5) over eighteen years of age, committed a criminal infraction against sexual immunity of minors.
2. Compulsory measures of medical nature shall be imposed to the persons, specified in a first part of this Article only in the cases, when a mental disease related with possibility of infliction of other substantial harm by these persons or with a danger to themselves or other persons.
3. Procedure of execution of compulsory measures of medical nature shall be determined by Penal Execution Code and the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of health care service.
4. In respect of persons referred to in paragraphs 1) – 4) of part one of this Article and not constituting a danger in their mental state, the court may transfer the necessary materials to the bodies of healthcare for decision of the issue on treatment of these persons or sending them to psychoneurological organizations in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of healthcare.
Footnote.

Section 229. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 230. Original section/article: 92. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Purposes of application of compulsory measures of medical nature
Purposes of application of compulsory measures of medical nature shall be treatment of persons, specified in a first part of

Section 231. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, or improvement of their medical state, as well as prevention of commission by them the new actions, provided by Articles of Special part of this Code.

Section 232. Original section/article: 93. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Types of compulsory measures of medical nature
1. A court may apply the following types of compulsory measures of medical nature:
1) compulsory out-patient observance and treatment on the by a psychiatrist;
2) compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of general type;
3) compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of specialized type;
4) compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of specialized type with intensive care;
5) chemical castration and treatment for sexual violence and sexual preference disorder.
2. For persons convicted of criminal offenses committed in a state of sanity, but in need of treatment for mental, behavioral disorders (diseases), including those associated with the use of psychoactive substances that do not exclude sanity, the court, along with punishment, may impose compulsory medical measures in the form of outpatient compulsory observation and treatment by a psychiatrist.
3. The court, when released from the places of deprivation of liberty after serving the sentence, shall decide on imposition, extension, change or termination of compulsory medical measures to the persons, committed crimes against sexual immunity of minors.
Footnote.

Section 233. Original section/article: 93. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 234. Original section/article: 94. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsory out-patient observance and treatment on the by a psychiatrist
Compulsory out-patient observance and treatment on the by a psychiatrist may be imposed upon existence of grounds, provided by

Section 235. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, if a person on his (her) mental state does not need in placement in a psychiatric hospital.

Section 236. Original section/article: 95. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsory treatment in a mental hospital
1. Compulsory treatment in a mental hospital may be imposed upon existence of grounds, provided by

Section 237. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, if a nature of mental disease of person requires such conditions of treatment, care, maintenance and observance, which may be carried out only in the mental hospital.
2. Compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of general type may be imposed to the person, which on his (her) state and nature of committed socially-dangerous action is need in hospital treatment and observance, but not requires of intensive observance. 
3. Compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of specialized type may be imposed to the person, which on his (her) mental state and nature of committed socially-dangerous action requires of permanent observation.
4. Compulsory treatment in a mental hospital of specialized type with intentional observation may be imposed to the person, which on his (her) mental state and nature of committed socially-dangerous action presents special danger to himself (herself) or other persons and requires permanent and intensive observation.

Section 238. Original section/article: 96. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Extension, change and cancellation of compulsory measures of medical nature
1. Extension, change and cancellation of compulsory measures of medical nature shall be carried out by court on presentation of administration of the institution, carrying out a compulsory treatment, on the ground of findings by commission of psychiatrists.
2. A person, to whom a compulsory measure of medical nature is imposed shall subject to certification by commission of psychiatrists at least once every six months for resolution of the issue on existence of grounds for making representations in a court on termination or change of such measure. Upon absence of grounds for termination of application or change of compulsory measure of medical nature, an administration of the institution, carrying out a compulsory treatment shall represent a conclusion in a court for extension of compulsory treatment. First extension of compulsory treatment may be executed upon expiration of six months from the date of initiation of treatment, in the subsequent extension of compulsory treatment shall be executed annually. 
3. Change or termination of compulsory measure of medical nature shall be carried out by court in the case of such change of mental state of person, upon that there is no need to apply any previously assigned measure or there is a need to appoint the compulsory medical measures.
4. In the case of termination of application of compulsory treatment in a mental hospital, a court may transfer necessary materials in relation of person, being in a compulsory treatment, to the health authorities for resolution of the issue on his (her) treatment or direction in a psychoneurology organization in the manner, provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of health care service.

Section 239. Original section/article: 97. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of punishment after application of compulsory measures of medical nature
1. A punishment may be applied by court to the person, who after commission of a criminal infraction or during service of sentence became ill with mental disease, denying him (her) the opportunity to be conscious of his (her) actions or control them, after his (her) recovery, if periods of limitations are not expired or there are no grounds for release him (her) from a criminal responsibility and punishment.
2. In the case of treatment of person, who suffered from mental disease after commission of a crime, upon imposition of punishment or resuming its execution time, during of which a compulsory treatment in a mental hospital is applied to the person shall be included in a term of punishment at the rate of one day of stay in a mental hospital for one day of imprisonment or one day of arrest.

Section 240. Original section/article: 98. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsory measures of medical nature, connected with execution of punishment
1. In the case provided by paragraphs 3) and 5) of part one of

Section 241. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, compulsory measures of a medical nature shall be carried out at the place of serving the deprivation of liberty, and in respect of the convicted persons to other types of punishment – in organizations of healthcare, providing outpatient psychiatric assistance.
2. In the case, provided by paragraph 4) of first part of

Section 242. Original section/article: 91. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, compulsory measures of medical nature shall be executed on the place of service of imprisonment, and in relation of convicted persons to other types of punishments – in the health care organizations.
3. Upon change of mental state of convicted person, requiring hospital treatment, placement of convicted person in a mental hospital or other medical institution shall be executed in the manner and grounds provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of health care service.
4. Residence time in the specified institutions shall be included in the term of service of sentence. When it is unnecessary to further treatment of convicted person in the specified institutions, release shall be executed in the manner provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of health care service.
5. Termination of application of compulsory measure of medical nature, connected with execution of punishment shall be executed by court on presentation of body, executing a punishment on the basis of conclusion of commission of psychiatrists.
Footnote.

Section 243. Original section/article: 98. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).

Section 244. Original section/article: 98-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsory payment 
In order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of victims, a compulsory payment in the form of a fixed sum of money established by

Section 245. Original section/article: 98-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, shall be collected from a guilty person, who committed a criminal infraction, by the court in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the victims compensation Fund.
Footnote.

Section 246. Original section/article: 98-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.01.2018 № 132-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2018).

Section 247. Original section/article: 98-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Amount of compulsory payment 
Compulsory payment shall be collected by the court in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the victims compensation Fund, in the amount of for: 
1) criminal offenses – five monthly calculation indices;
2) crimes of little gravity – ten monthly calculation indices;
3) crimes of average gravity – fifteen monthly calculation indices;
4) grave crimes – twenty monthly calculation indices;
5) especially grave crimes – thirty monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 248. Original section/article: 98-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 10.01.2018 № 132-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2018).

Section 249. Original section/article: 98-3. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Establishment of special requirements for the behavior of a person who has committed a criminal offense 
1. A person found guilty of a criminal offense may be subject to special requirements for his/her behavior for a period from three months to one year when imposing punishment or being released from criminal liability or punishment by the court on its own initiative or at the request of the parties to the criminal proceedings, providing for the provision of psychological assistance, as well as in full or separately prohibition:
1) against the will of the victim to search for, pursue, visit the victim, conduct verbal, telephone conversations and contact with him/her by other means, including minors and (or) incapable members of his/her family;
2) to acquire, keep, carry and use firearms and other weapons;
3) use alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances.
2. When special requirements are established for the behavior of a person who has committed a violent crime, in order to protect and defend the victim and members of his or her family, in exceptional cases the court may, for a period of up to thirty days, apply a measure of legal influence in the form of a ban on the person who has committed a violent crime from living in the dwelling with the victim.
3. During the period of validity of special requirements to the behavior of a convicted person or a person in respect of whom the pre-trial investigation is terminated for reconciliation of parties, he/she may be obliged to report to the internal affairs bodies for preventive conversation from one to four times a month.
4. During the period of validity of special requirements for the behavior of a person in respect of whom the pre-trial investigation has been terminated for the reconciliation of the parties in accordance with part two of

Section 250. Original section/article: 109-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, he/she shall be obliged by court decision to report to the internal affairs authorities for preventive talks from one to four times a month.
5. Special requirements for a person released from criminal liability in connection with reconciliation shall be established in accordance with the procedure defined in

Section 251. Original section/article: 165. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 252. Original section/article: 98-3. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
SPECIAL PART
Chapter 1. CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS AGAINST PERSONS

Section 253. Original section/article: 99. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Murder
1. Murder, in other words illegal intended cause death to other person,
- shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to fifteen years.
2. Murder of:
1) two or more persons;
2) persons or his (her) close relatives in connection with carrying out of employment activity by this person or performance of professional or public duty;
3) persons, certainly for guilty person being in helpless state, as well as linked with kidnapping or hostage taking;
4) women, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
5) committed with special cruelty;
6) committed in a manner dangerous for life of other persons;
7) committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement;
8) for selfish motives, as well as by hire or linked with robbery with violence or extortion;
9) for hooligan motives;
10) commission in order to conceal other crime or facilitate its commission, as well as linked with rape or sexual battery;
11) on social, national, racial or religious hatred or enmity grounds or blood revenge;
12) commission in order of the use of organs or tissues of injured person;
13) committed repeatedly;
14) certainly a minor person;
15) committed by a criminal group, as well as in an emergency situation or during mass riots, shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with confiscation of property or without it.
3. The murder of a juvenile -
shall be punished by life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 254. Original section/article: 99. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 255. Original section/article: 100. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The killing by a mother of her newborn child
The killing by a mother of her newborn child both during childbirth, and in the subsequent period, committed in the commission of psycho-traumatic situation or in a state of mental disease, not excluding mental capacity –
shall be punished by restriction of punishment for the term of up to four years or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 256. Original section/article: 101. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Murder, committed in the affective state
1. Murder, committed in the state of sudden heat of passion (affect), caused by violence, abuse or great insult or other unlawful or immoral actions (omission) of injured person, as well as long psycho-traumatic situation, occurred in connection with systematic illegal or immoral behavior of injured person -
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three years or imprisonment for the same term.
2. Murder of two or more persons, committed in the circumstances, specified in a first part of this Article -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term up to five years.

Section 257. Original section/article: 102. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Murder, committed upon use of excessive force in self-defense
Murder, committed upon use of excessive force in self-defense –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term up to two years or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 258. Original section/article: 103. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Murder, committed upon excess of measures, necessary for detention of a person, committed a crime
Murder, committed upon excess of measures, necessary for detention of person, committed a crime –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term up to three years or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 259. Original section/article: 104. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cause death by negligence
1. Cause death by negligence -
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term up to three years or imprisonment for the same term.
2. Cause death by negligence to two or more persons –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of five years or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 260. Original section/article: 105. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Incitement to suicide, inducement to commit suicide or assisting in the commission of suicide 
1. Inciting a person to commit suicide or attempted suicide by means of threats, cruel treatment or systematic humiliation of the victim's human dignity, as well as inducing or assisting the victim to commit suicide –
shall be punished by restriction of freedom for the term up to three years or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same act committed:
1) against a person known to the perpetrator to be in a helpless state or materially or otherwise dependent on the perpetrator;
2) in respect of two or more persons;
3) by a group of persons by prior agreement or by a criminal group;
4) through the use of telecommunications networks, information technology facilities, including the Internet, –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term.
3. Acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, committed against a minor, –
Shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to nine years.
Footnote.

Section 261. Original section/article: 105. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 262. Original section/article: 106. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional infliction of grievous harm to health
1. Intentional infliction of grievous harm to health 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
2. The same action, committed:
1) in relation of two or more persons;
2) in relation of person or his (her) relatives in connection with carrying out of employment activity by this person or performance of professional or public duty;
3) in relation to a person who is obviously in a helpless state or in material or other dependence on the guilty person, also associated with abduction of a person or hostage taking;
4) with special cruelty;
5) by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert;
6) for selfish motives, as well as by hire 
7) for hooligan motives;
8) on social, national, racial or religious hatred grounds or enmity;
9) commission in order of the use of organs or tissues of injured person;
10) repeatedly;
11) in relation of certainly minor person;
12) in conditions of emergency situations or in the course of mass disorders, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to ten years, with or without property confiscation.
3. The actions, provided by first or second part of this Article, causing death of injured person by negligence or committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of eight to twelve years, with or without property confiscation.
Footnote.

Section 263. Original section/article: 106. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 264. Original section/article: 107. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional infliction of average-gravity harm to health 
1. Intentional infliction of average-gravity harm to health – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years.
2. The same action, committed:
1) in relation of two or more persons;
2) in relation of person or his (her) relatives in connection with carrying out of employment activity by this person or performance of professional or public duty;
3) with special cruelty, also in relation to a person who, with the guilty person’s knowledge, was in a helpless state or in material or other dependence on the guilty person;
4) by group of persons on previous concert, criminal group;
5) for hooligan motives;
6) on social, national, racial or religious hatred grounds or enmity;
7) repeatedly;
8) in relation of certainly minor person, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 265. Original section/article: 107. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 266. Original section/article: 108. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional infliction of non-grave harm to health 
Footnote.

Section 267. Original section/article: 108. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 268. Original section/article: 108-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional infliction of minor injury to health 
1. Intentional infliction of minor injury to health – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculated indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for the term of up to fifty days.
2. The same act committed:
1) against two or more persons;
2) against a person or his or her relatives in connection with the person's official activity or performance of professional or public duty;
3) with particular cruelty, as well as against a person known to the perpetrator to be in a helpless state or materially or otherwise dependent on the perpetrator;
4) by a group of persons, or a group of persons by prior agreement;
5) from molester motives;
6) motivated by social, national, racial or religious hatred or enmity;
7) repeatedly;
8) against a person known to be a minor, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculate indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote. Chapter 1 is supplemented with

Section 269. Original section/article: 108-1i. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
n accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 270. Original section/article: 109. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 271. Original section/article: 109-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Battery 
1. Battery or other violent acts causing physical pain, but not caused minor injury to health, – 
Shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculated indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for the term of up to twenty-five days.
2. The same act committed:
1) against two or more persons;
2) against a person or his or her relatives in connection with the person's official activity or performance of professional or public duty;
3) against a person known to the perpetrator to be in a helpless state or materially or otherwise dependent on the perpetrator;
4) by a group of persons, or a group of persons by prior agreement;
5) from molester motives;
6) motivated by social, national, racial or religious hatred or enmity;
7) repeatedly;
8) against a person known to be a minor , – 
Shall be punished by a fine in the amount from one hundred to two hundred monthly calculated indices or corrective labors in the same amount or community services for the term one hundred to two hundred hours, or arrest for the term of thirty to fifty days.
Footnote. Chapter 1 is supplemented with

Section 272. Original section/article: 109-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 273. Original section/article: 110. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Torment
1. Infliction of physical or mental suffering by violent acts, committed with particular cruelty, mockery, with the purpose of causing torment to the victim, if this act did not entail the infliction of grievous or moderately grievous harm to health, – 
shall be punished by corrective labor in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculated indices, or community services for the term of up to six hundred hours, or imprisonment for the term of up to three years.
2. The same action, committed:
1) in relation of certainly minor or person, certainly for guilty person being in helpless state or in material or other dependence from guilty person, as well as a person, kidnapped or taken as hostage;
2) in relation of two or more persons;
3) in relation of women, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
5) by hire;
6) on social, national, racial or religious hatred or enmity, - 
Shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 274. Original section/article: 110. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 275. Original section/article: 111. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infliction of harm to the health in affective state
Intentional infliction of grievous harm to health, committed in the state of sudden heat of passion (affect), caused by violence, abuse or great insult on the part of injured person or other unlawful or immoral actions (omission) of injured person, as well as long psycho-traumatic situation, occurred in connection with systematic illegal or immoral behavior of injured person –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
Footnote.

Section 276. Original section/article: 111. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 277. Original section/article: 112. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infliction of grievous harm to health upon use of excessive force in self-defense
1. Intentional infliction of grievous harm to health, committed upon use of excessive force in self-defense -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the death of injured person by negligence –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 278. Original section/article: 112. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 279. Original section/article: 113. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infliction of grievous harm to health upon detention of a person, committed a crime
Intentional infliction of grievous harm to health, committed upon excess of measures, necessary for detention of person, committed a crime -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 280. Original section/article: 113. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 281. Original section/article: 114. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Negligent infliction of harm to health
1. Infliction of average gravity of harm to health by negligence -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. Infliction of average gravity of harm to health by negligence to two or more persons –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
3. Infliction of grievous harm to health by negligence –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
4. Infliction of grievous harm to health by negligence to two or more persons -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 282. Original section/article: 114. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 283. Original section/article: 115. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Threat
Threat of murder or infliction of grievous harm to health, and equally other grievous violence against a person or destruction of property by arson, explosion or other dangerous way upon existence of sufficient grounds to fear of execution of this threat -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days. 
Footnote.

Section 284. Original section/article: 115. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 285. Original section/article: 115-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Stalking
Stalking, that is, the malicious pursuit of a person expressed in actions aimed at establishing contact and/or tracking a person against his or her will, not involving the use of violence but causing significant harm,
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote. Chapter 1 was supplemented with

Section 286. Original section/article: 115-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 287. Original section/article: 116. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Forcible removal or illegal removal of organs and tissues of person
1. Forcible removal or illegal removal of organs and tissues of living person for transplantation or other use, as well as commission of illegal transactions in relation of organs and tissues of living person -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) in relation of person, certainly for guilty person, being in helpless state;
2) in relation of certainly minor;
3) in relation of two or more persons;
4) group of persons, group of persons on previous concert;
5) repeatedly;
6) with the use of weapon or objects used as weapon;
7) in relation of woman, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
8) by false pretenses or abuse of trust;
9) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
10) with the use of material or other dependence of injured person –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of six to ten years, with confiscation of property, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to six years.
3. The actions, provided by first of second part of this Article, causing the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences or committed by criminal group –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of eight to twelve years, with confiscation of property, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to six years.
Footnote.

Section 288. Original section/article: 116. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 289. Original section/article: 117. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infection with venereal disease
1. Infection of other person with venereal disease by person, who knew that he (she) has such disease –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or community services for the term of up to one hundred twenty hours, or arrest for the term of up to forty five days.
2. The same action, entailed serious consequences, as well as infection of two and more persons or certainly minor –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 290. Original section/article: 117. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 291. Original section/article: 118. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infection of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS)
1. Knowing endangering of other person of infection of HIV/AIDS -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. Infection of other person with HIV / AIDS by person who knew that he has this disease –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
3. An action, provided by second part of this Article, committed in relation of two or more persons in relation of certainly minor –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years. 
Note. A person, committed the actions, provided by first or second part of this Article shall be released from criminal responsibility in the case, if other person, endangering of infection or infected by HIV / AIDS, was prevented in a timely manner of the presence of disease of first person and voluntarily agreed to perform actions that created the risk of infection.
Footnote.

Section 292. Original section/article: 118. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 293. Original section/article: 119. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Leaving in danger
1. Knowingly leaving without the aid of a person, being in danger state to life or health and deprived of the opportunity to take measures for self-preservation on the early childhood, old age, illness or due to other helpless state, in the cases, if the guilty person had the opportunity to render assistance to that person or was obliged to take care about that person or endanger him (her) by himself (herself) in a danger state for life and health -
shall be punished by the fine of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount or community service for the term of up to one hundred twenty hours, or arrest for the term of up to forty five days.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm by negligence to the health of person, left without assistance –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person, left without assistance by negligence –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years or imprisonment for the same term.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons be negligence –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 294. Original section/article: 120. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Rape
1. Rape, in other words sexual relationship with application of action of force and with threat of its application to injured person or other persons or with the use of helpless state of injured person 
- shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of six to eight years.
2. Rape:
1) committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert;
2) together with the threat of murder, and also committed with particular cruelty in relation to the victim or other persons;
3) entailing the infection of the victim with a venereal disease;
4) committed repeatedly;
5) committed by a person performing official duties –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of nine to twelve years.
3. The actions, provided by first and second parts of this Article, if they:
1) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
2) resulted infliction of grievous harm to health of injured person by negligence, infection her with HIV/AIDS or other grave consequences;
3) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) committed in the conditions of emergency situation or in the course of mass disorders;
5) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
6) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of twelve to fifteen years with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of ten years or without it.
3-1. Actions, provided by parts one, two or three of this Article, if they: 
1) committed against a minor;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) committed by a criminal group, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to seventeen years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities. 
3-2. The acts provided for by parts one, two, three or 3-1 of this article, if they: 
1) were committed against two or more minors;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) committed in relation to a minor by a parent, stepfather, teacher or other person, who is entrusted with the duties of raising her by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of seventeen to twenty years with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities or life imprisonment.
4. Acts provided for by parts one, two, three, paragraph 3) of part 3-1 and part 3-2 of this article, if they are committed against a minor or negligently caused the death of the victim, -
shall be punished by life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 295. Original section/article: 120. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 296. Original section/article: 121. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violent acts of sexual nature
1. Sodomy, lesbianism or other sexual acts with the use of violence or with the threat of its use against the victim or other persons or using the helpless state of the victim - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to eight years.
2. The same acts:
1) committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert;
2) together with the threat of murder, and also committed with particular cruelty in relation to the victim or other persons;
3) entailing the infection of the victim with a venereal disease;
4) committed repeatedly;
5) committed by a person performing official duties -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of nine to twelve years.
3. The acts provided for by parts one or two of this article, if they:
1) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
2) caused, through negligence, grievous bodily harm to the victim, his/her HIV infection or other grave consequences;
3) is excluded by Law № 240-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) committed in an emergency situation or during mass riots;
5) is excluded by Law № 240-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 01.04.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
6) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of twelve to fifteen years with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of ten years.
3-1. The acts provided for by parts one, two or three of this article, if they:
1) are committed against a minor;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) committed by a criminal group, ––
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to seventeen years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3-2. The acts provided for by parts one, two, three or 3-1 of this article, if they:
1) are committed against two or more minors;
2) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
3) committed in relation to a minor (minor) by a parent, stepfather, teacher or other person who is entrusted with the duties to raise him (her) by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seventeen to twenty years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities or life imprisonment.
4. Acts provided for by parts one, two, three, paragraph 3) of part 3-1 and part 3-2 of this article, if they are committed in relation to a minor (minor), or negligently entailed the death of the victim (victim), -
shall be punished by life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 297. Original section/article: 121. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 298. Original section/article: 121-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sexual harassment against persons, not attained the age of sixteen 
Committing indecent acts of a sexual nature against a person known to be under the age of sixteen, involving propositions, including through the use of telecommunications networks, including the Internet, or touching of a sexual nature, –
shall be punished by corrective labor in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculated indices or community services for the term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for the term of up to fifty days with or without deprivation of right to hold specific positions or engage in a specific activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote. Chapter 1 is supplemented with

Section 299. Original section/article: 121-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 300. Original section/article: 122. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sexual intercourse or other acts of a sexual nature with a person known to be under sixteen years of age, also receiving prostitution services or other sexual services provided by a person known to be underage 
1. Sexual intercourse, sodomy, lesbianism or other actions of a sexual nature with a person who is known to be under sixteen years of age -
shall be punishable by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. Receiving prostitution services or other sexual services provided by a person who is known to be underage -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to six years with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The acts envisaged by part one of this article, committed against a person who is under sixteen years of age, by a parent, stepfather, stepmother, teacher or other person who is charged with the responsibility for his or her upbringing by law of the Republic of Kazakhstan -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The acts envisaged by parts one, two or three of this article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) against two or more persons, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of twelve to fifteen years with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Note. In this article and Articles 134, 308 and 309 of this Code, other services of a sexual nature shall be understood as the commission, with the purpose of obtaining income or property benefits, of actions aimed at satisfying the sexual need (passion) of another person, including remotely in real time via telecommunications networks, including the Internet.
Footnote.

Section 301. Original section/article: 122. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 302. Original section/article: 123. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Coercion to sexual relations, pederasty, lesbianism or other actions of a sexual nature 
1. Coercion of a person to sexual relations, pederasty, lesbianism or other actions of a sexual nature by means of blackmail, threat of destruction, damage or seizure of property or with the use of material or other dependence of the victim –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed in respect of a minor, – 
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities. 
Footnote.

Section 303. Original section/article: 123. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 304. Original section/article: 124. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Corruption of persons, not attained the age of sixteen 
Footnote.

Section 305. Original section/article: 124. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Commission of sexual abuses without use of force against a person known to be under the age of sixteen, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The same action, committed against a person known to be under the age of sixteen, by a parent, stepfather, stepmother, teacher or other person to whom the responsibilities of her/his upbringing are imposed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first or second part of this Article, committed repeatedly –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of twelve to seventeen years, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 306. Original section/article: 124. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 307. Original section/article: 125. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kidnapping 
1. Kidnapping -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to seven years.
2. The same action, committed:
1) group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with use of force, dangerous to life or health;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); 
6) in relation of woman, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
7) in relation of two or more persons;
8) for mercenary motives;
9) by a person using his/her official position;
10) with falsification, concealment or destruction of documents proving the identity of the victim, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) committed in order of operation of abducted;
2-1) committed against a person known to be a minor;
3) resulted the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property or without it.
Footnote.

Section 308. Original section/article: 125. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 309. Original section/article: 125-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Coercion into marriage
1. Coercion into marriage, that is, compelling a person to enter into marriage under threat of violence or destruction or damage to property, or by means of blackmail, including under threat of disclosing or spreading information discrediting the victim or his or her relatives, or other information, the disclosure or dissemination of which may cause substantial harm to the interests of the victim or his or her relatives,
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same act, if committed:
1) with the use of violence;
2) against a person known to be a minor;
3) through the use of the victim’s material or other dependence;
4) by a group of persons or by a group of persons by prior conspiracy;
5) with the use of one’s official position, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or by restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, if they have negligently caused grave consequences,
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to ten years.
Footnote. Chapter 1 was supplemented with

Section 310. Original section/article: 125-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 311. Original section/article: 126. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal imprisonment
1. Illegal imprisonment, not related with his (her) kidnapping -
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with use of force, dangerous to life and health;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); 
6) in relation of woman, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
7) in relation of two or more persons;
8) for selfish motives;
9) using material or other dependence of the victim;
10) by a person using his/her official position;
11) with falsification, concealment or destruction of documents proving the identity of the victim -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with confiscation of property or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) committed in order of illegal operation of deprived of liberty;
2-1) committed against a person known to be a minor;
3) resulted the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property or without it.
Footnote.

Section 312. Original section/article: 126. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 313. Original section/article: 127. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal placement in a mental hospital
1. Illegal placement in a mental hospital or illegal detention in it -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, if it:
1) committed for selfish motives or other personal interest;
2) committed by person with the use of his (her) official position;
3) committed in relation of certainly minor;
4) resulted the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to eight years with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 314. Original section/article: 127. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 315. Original section/article: 128. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Human trafficking
1. Buy and sale or commission of other transactions in relation of person, as well as his (her) operation or enlistment, transportation, transfer, concealment, receipt, as well as commission of other actions in order of operation -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to seven years with confiscation of property.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with use of force, dangerous to life and health, or threat of its use;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) in relation of woman, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
6) in relation of two and more persons;
7) in order of removal of organs or tissues of injured person for transplantation or other use;
8) by false pretenses or abuse of trust;
9) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
10) with the use of material or other dependence of injured person;
11) in relation of person, certainly for guilty person suffered from mental disease or being in the helpless state;
13) in respect of a woman who has given birth in exploitation and (or) has a minor child with her -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to nine years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first and second parts of this Article, committed in order of export outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan, import in the Republic of Kazakhstan or transportation of person through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from one foreign state to another, as well as export outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan, import in the Republic of Kazakhstan or transportation of person through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from one foreign state to another state in order of commission of such actions-
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of nine to twelve years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third part of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) resulted the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of twelve to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
Note. In the articles of this Code providing for liability for crimes related to human trafficking, the victim’s consent to exploitation, obtained through the use of violence or threat thereof, deceit or breach of trust through the use of official position, material or other dependence, use of mental disorder or helpless state, removal, concealment or destruction of documents certifying the identity of the victim, or other means of influence, shall not constitute a ground for excluding criminal liability and punishment.
Footnote.

Section 316. Original section/article: 128. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 317. Original section/article: 129. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Human cloning
1. Human cloning, creation of human embryos for the purposes of biomedical research or use of a human embryo for commercial, military or industrial purposes, as well as the export of germ cells or a human embryo from the Republic of Kazakhstan for the same purposes - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to eight years with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 318. Original section/article: 129. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 319. Original section/article: 130. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 320. Original section/article: 131. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Insult
1. Insult, in other words humiliation of honor and dignity of other person, expressed in an unseemly manner -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or community services for the term of up to one hundred twenty years.
2. The same act, committed in public , or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or community services for the term of up to one hundred and eighty hours.
Footnote.

Section 321. Original section/article: 131. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 2. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINST THE FAMILY
AND MINORS

Section 322. Original section/article: 132. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of a minor in the commission of criminal infractions
1. Involvement of a minor in the commission of criminal infractions by person, reached the age of eighteen -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to six years.
2. The same action, committed by a parent, teacher or other person to whom the responsibilities of a minor’s upbringing are imposed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan or through the use of telecommunications networks, objects of informatization, including the Internet, –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to eight years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed with use of force or treat of its use shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for life, -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to ten years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, linked with involvement of minor in the commission of grievous or especially grave crime shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for life, -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
5. The actions, provided by first, second, third or fourth parts of this Article, linked with involvement of minor in the criminal activity of criminal group shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for life. 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 323. Original section/article: 132. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2018 № 170-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 324. Original section/article: 133. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of a minor in commission of antisocial actions
1. Involvement of a minor in consumption of doping substances or drug abuse, or in repeated use of alcoholic drinks, or vagrancy or beggary -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed by parent, teacher or other person, to whom the responsibilities on upbringing of a minor are imposed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed repeatedly or with use of force or threat of its use -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to seven years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 325. Original section/article: 133. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 326. Original section/article: 134. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of a minor in prostitution, provision of other sexual services 
Footnote. The Heading of Article134 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication);
1. Involvement of a minor in prostitution, provision of other sexual services -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to six years, with confiscation of property, with life-long deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. Involvement of a minor in prostitution, provision of other services of a sexual nature by using violence or the threat of using it, exploiting a dependent position, blackmail, destruction of or damage to property, or by deception, as well as by propaganda and (or) advertising of prostitution, other services of a sexual nature for these purposes -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to eight years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first and second part of this Article, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
1-1) through the use of telecommunications networks, objects of informatization, including the Internet;
2) repeatedly; 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of six to ten years, with confiscation of property, with life-long deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by:
1) criminal group;
2) parent, teacher or other person, to whom the responsibilities on upbringing of a minor are imposed by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Notes. In this article, Articles 308 and 309 of this Code:
1) propaganda of prostitution, other services of a sexual nature for the purpose of involvement in this activity, as well as for pimpship purpose, shall be understood as dissemination of any information about prostitution, other services of a sexual nature, the benefits and advantages of providing such services;
2) advertising of prostitution, other services of a sexual nature for the purpose of involvement in this activity, as well as for pimpship purpose, shall be understood as dissemination and (or) placement of information about the person, price, method and (or) the venue of such services.
Footnote.

Section 327. Original section/article: 134. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2018 № 170-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 328. Original section/article: 135. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Trafficking in minors
1. Buy and sale or commission of other transactions in relation of minor, as well as his (her) operation or enlistment, transportation, transfer, concealment, receipt, as well as commission of other actions in order of operation-
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to nine years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with use of force, dangerous to life and health, or threat of its use;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) in relation of two and more persons;
6) in order of removal of organs or tissues of injured person for transplantation or other use;
7) by false pretenses or abuse of trust;
8) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
9) in order of involvement of a minor in commission of crimes or other antisocial actions;
10) with the use of material or other dependence of injured person;
11) in relation of minor, certainly for guilty person being in the state of pregnancy;
12) in relation of a minor, certainly for guilty person suffered from mental disease or being in the helpless state;
13) with suppression, non-disclosure or destruction of documents, certifying identity of injured person;
14) in respect of a minor who gave birth in exploitation and/or has a minor child with her –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of nine to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first and second parts of this Article, committed in order of export outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan, import in the Republic of Kazakhstan or transportation of a minor through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from one foreign state to another, as well as export outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan, import in the Republic of Kazakhstan or transportation of minor through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from one foreign state to another state in order of commission of such actions-
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) resulted the death of injured person by negligence or other grievous consequences, -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of twelve to eighteen years with confiscation of property.
Note. The consent to exploitation of a minor victim shall not be taken into account regardless of the presence or absence of the methods of influence provided for in the note to

Section 329. Original section/article: 128. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code.
Footnote.

Section 330. Original section/article: 135. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 331. Original section/article: 136. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Substitution of child
1. Intentional substitution of child – 
shall be punished by the fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed for selfish or other bad motives, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.

Section 332. Original section/article: 137. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal activity on adoption
1. Illegal actions on adoption of child, transfer him (her) under trusteeship (guardianship), foster parents-
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
2. The same actions, committed for selfish motives or by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 333. Original section/article: 137. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 334. Original section/article: 138. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of secret of adoption
Disclosure of the secret of adoption against the will of the adopter, committed by a person who is obliged to keep the fact of adoption as an official or professional secret, or by another person out of mercenary or other base motives, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 335. Original section/article: 138. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 336. Original section/article: 139. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-performance of obligations on payment of child maintenance, evasion of funds for maintenance of disabled parents, disabled husband (wife) 
Non-performance of obligations more than three months by parent on payment of funds by decision of a court on the maintenance of minor children, as well as disabled children, reached the age of eighteen years, or evasion more than three months of adult employable person from payment of funds by decision of a court for maintenance of his (her) disabled parent, or evasion more than six months of employable person from payment of funds by decision of a court for maintenance of disabled and being in need of material assistance of husband (wife) – 
shall be punished by community services for a term of up to six hundred hours or by restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 337. Original section/article: 139. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 338. Original section/article: 140. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-performance of obligations on upbringing of a minor
1. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
2. Non-performance or improper performance of obligations without good reasons on upbringing of a minor by parent or other person, to whom these obligations are imposed, as well as by teacher or other employee of educational, fostering, medical or other institution, obliged to supervise the minor, connected with abusive treatment with a minor, - 
shall be punished by a fine of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor of the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. Acts specified in part two of this article, committed in relation to two or more persons, 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 339. Original section/article: 140. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.04.2019 № 240-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 340. Original section/article: 141. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Improper performance of obligations on ensuring the safety of life and health of children
1. Improper performance of obligations on ensuring the safety of life and health of minor by person, to whom such obligations are imposed on service, or person, performing these obligations on special order or voluntary accepted such obligations, if it caused infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to health of minor by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of minor by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 341. Original section/article: 141. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 342. Original section/article: 142. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of rights of trustee or guardian 
Use of trusteeship or guardianship for selfish or other ignoble purposes to the detriment of a ward or intentional leaving the ward without supervision or necessary assistance, entailed substantial impairment of rights and legal interests of ward, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 343. Original section/article: 142. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 344. Original section/article: 143. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal export of minor person outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal export of a minor person outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan- 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed for mercenary or other base motives or by a group of persons by prior agreement, -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to eight thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to eight years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 345. Original section/article: 143. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 346. Original section/article: 144. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of minors in the production, distribution, advertising, and sale of erotic content
Footnote. The title of

Section 347. Original section/article: 144. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Involvement of minors in the production of erotic content, as well as in the distribution, advertising, and sale of erotic content –
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years, with or without confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The acts provided for by part one of this article, committed: 
1) by a parent, stepfather, stepmother, teacher or other person who is charged with the responsibility of raising a minor by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
2) in respect of a known minor (minor);
3) a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
4) repeatedly, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to seven years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 348. Original section/article: 144. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 3. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINST CONSTITUTIONAL AND
OTHER RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OF PERSON AND CITIZEN

Section 349. Original section/article: 145. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the equality of person and citizen
1. Direct or indirect restriction of rights and freedoms of person (citizen) on grounds of origin, social, official or property status, sex, race, nationality, language, attitude to religion, beliefs, place of residence, membership of public associations, or any other circumstances –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or the leader of the public association,-
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to three years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 350. Original section/article: 145. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 351. Original section/article: 146. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, torture 
1. Cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, that is, intentional infliction of physical and (or) mental suffering by an official or a person acting in an official capacity, or by another person with their instigation or with their knowledge or tacit consent, in the absence of signs of torture, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 2,000 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for up to 600 hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to two years or without it.
2. Torture, that is, deliberate infliction of physical and (or) mental suffering by an official or a person acting in an official capacity, or by another person with their instigation or with their knowledge or tacit consent, committed in order to obtain information from the person being tortured or another person or confession or punish him for an action that he or another person has committed or of which he is suspected, as well as to intimidate or coerce him or a third person, or for any reason based on discrimination of any nature, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restraint of liberty for a term up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to three years. .
3. Actions envisaged by the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons or a group of persons in collusion;
2) repeatedly;
3) with the infliction of moderate harm to health;
4) in respect of a woman who is known to the perpetrator to be pregnant, or a minor, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of four to ten years, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
4. Acts provided for by the first, second or third parts of this article, which have resulted in the infliction of grievous bodily harm or through negligence in the death of the victim, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
Notes.
1. Physical and (or) mental suffering caused as a result of lawful actions of officials and persons acting in an official capacity or other persons shall not be recognized as cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and torture.
2. Person acting in an official capacity - a person who does not fall under the definitions of an official or representative of authority used in this Code, who is vested with administrative powers in relation to a person who is kept, undergoing treatment, studying or educated on a permanent, temporary or periodic basis in an organization with which a person has an employment relationship, including: an employee of an educational, educational, medical, medical and social institution (organization), a teacher, an instructor, a medical worker, as well as employees under a contract.
Footnote.

Section 352. Original section/article: 146. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 353. Original section/article: 147. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of integrity of private life and the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on personal data and their protection 
1. Non-compliance with measures for protection of personal data by a person, to whom an obligations of taking such measures is imposed, if this action has caused significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of persons, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. Illegal collection of information about the private life of a person constituting his personal or family secret, without his consent, or causing significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of a person as a result of illegal collection and (or) processing (except for dissemination) of other personal data -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Acts specified in part two of this article, committed by a person using their official position or special technical means intended for covertly obtaining information, or through illegal access to electronic information resources, information systems, or illegal interception of information transmitted via telecommunications networks, information technology facilities, or for the purpose of obtaining benefits and advantages for themselves or for other persons or organizations, as well as in relation to a person or their relatives in connection with the performance of official duties or professional or public duties by that person, with the aim of obstructing such activities or in retaliation for them –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of two to five years or without it.
4. Dissemination of information about the private life of a person constituting his personal or family secret, without his consent, or causing significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of a person as a result of illegal dissemination of other personal data -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to six years.
5. Committing the actions provided for in part four of this article in a public speech, a publicly displayed work, in the mass media, telecommunications networks, information technology facilities, or online platforms, as well as in relation to a person or their relatives in connection with the performance of official duties or the fulfillment of professional or public duties with the aim of obstructing such activities or in retaliation for them, 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 354. Original section/article: 147. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 419-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 355. Original section/article: 148. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal violation of privacy of letters, telephone conversations, postal, telegraphic or other messages
1. Illegal violation of privacy of letters, telephone conversations, postal, telegraphic or other messages of individuals – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, committed by a person with the use of his (her) official position or special technical means intended for secret receipt of information, or by illegal access to electronic information resources, information system or illegal interception of information, transmitted through telecommunications networks, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of two to five years.
Footnote.

Section 356. Original section/article: 148. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 357. Original section/article: 149. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
violation of inviolability of housing
1. Illegal entry into a dwelling against the will of the person living in it – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days. 
2. The same action, committed with use of force or with threat of its use or group of persons, or at night time or accompanied by illegal search, as well as illegal eviction from dwelling -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term. 
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 358. Original section/article: 149. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 359. Original section/article: 150. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with implementation of election rights or the work of election commissions
1. Obstructing the free exercise by a citizen of his electoral rights or the right to participate in a referendum, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for up to one hundred and twenty hours.
1-1. Illegal interference in the work of election commissions or referendum commissions and obstruction of voting, performance of duties related to the registration of a candidate, party lists, counting of votes and determination of voting results in elections or a referendum, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours.
2. The acts provided for by parts one and 1-1 of this article:
1) connected with bribery, false pretence, use of force or threat of its use;
2) committed by person with the use of his (her) official or service position;
3) committed by group of persons on previous concert or criminal group;
4) committed by violation of established procedure of functioning of electronic election system, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 360. Original section/article: 150. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 361. Original section/article: 151. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Falsification of election documents, documents of referendum or incorrect counting of votes
1. Falsification of election documents or documents of referendum, making blank records in the ballot papers or signature lists, certainly incorrect counting of votes or certainly incorrect establishment of election results or results of referendum, or violation of secret voting, if these actions are committed by agent of a candidate for the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan or agent of a candidate for deputy, as well as member of the election commission or the commission on conducting of referendum, -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed by violation of established procedure of functioning of electronic election system, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to seven years.

Section 362. Original section/article: 152. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal termination of labor agreement with employee or non-performance of decision of court on reinstatement in work, as well as other violation of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, entailed infliction of substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of the citizen, - 
shall be punished by community services for a term of up to one hundred sixty hours or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to one year or without it.
2. Groundless refusal to conclude an employment contract with a woman or groundless termination of an employment contract with her due to her pregnancy, or groundless refusal to conclude an employment contract, or groundless termination of an employment contract with a woman who has children under three years old, for these reasons, as well as groundless refusal to conclude an employment contract or groundless termination of an employment contract with a disabled person on the grounds of disability or a minor on the grounds of his minority –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to one year or without it. 
3. Repeated delay of payment of salary in full volume and in the established terms in connection with use of money for other purposes by person, exercising management functions – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to three years or without it..
Footnote.

Section 363. Original section/article: 152. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.06.2022 № 129-VII (shall be enforced ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 364. Original section/article: 153. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation of minor
1. Violation of labor legislation of the republic of Kazakhstan by employee or civil servant in terms of involvement of the minors to works, on which application of labor of employees, not reached the age of eighteen is prohibited, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years
2. The same action, committed:
1)by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) in relation of two or more persons;
4) by false pretenses or abuse of trust;
5) in relation of a minor, certainly for guilty person suffered from mental disease or being in the helpless state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of two to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 365. Original section/article: 153. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 366. Original section/article: 154. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with legal activity of employee representatives
Interfering with legal activity of employee representatives by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position, as well as interfering with their legal activity, committed by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position, entailed substantial violation of their rights and legal interests, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 367. Original section/article: 154. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 368. Original section/article: 155. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obstruction of organizing, holding or participating in a peaceful assembly 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 369. Original section/article: 155. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Illegal obstruction of the organization, holding of a peaceful assembly, other lawful public events or participation in them, or coercion to participate in them, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to 180 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to 50 days.
2. The same action, committed by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position or with use of force or the threat of its use, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in te same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 370. Original section/article: 155. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 371. Original section/article: 156. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of labour protection rules
1. Violation of rules of safety regulations, industrial sanitary or other rules of labor protection, committed by person, to whom the obligations on organization or enforcement of these rules, entailed infliction of average gravity harm to health by negligence are lied, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to health by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor of the same amount, or community service for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to two years.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
4. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to four years.
Footnote.

Section 372. Original section/article: 156. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 373. Original section/article: 157. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Coercion to participation in a strike or refuse of participation in a strike
1. Coercion to participation in a strike or to refuse to participate in a legal strike – 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or by use of force or threat of use of force,-
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.

Section 374. Original section/article: 158. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with legal professional activity of journalist
1. Interfering with legal professional activity of journalist by coercion him (her) to dissemination or refuse to dissemination of information, as well as by creating conditions, preventing to execution by the journalist of the legal professional activity or deprives him (her) of such opportunity, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or community services for the term of up to one hundred twenty hours, or arrest for the term of up to forty five days.
2. The same action, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, as well as with use of force or threat of its use in relation of journalist or his (her) relatives or with damaging or destruction of their property, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.

Section 375. Original section/article: 159. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal restriction of a right to access to information resources
Illegal restriction of a right to access to information resources –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours.
Footnote.

Section 376. Original section/article: 159. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 4. CRIMES AGAINST PEACE AND HUMAN SECURITY

Section 377. Original section/article: 160. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Planning, preparation, unleashing or conduct of aggressive war
1. Planning or preparation of aggressive war – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years.
2. Unleashing or conduct of aggressive war- 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 378. Original section/article: 160. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 379. Original section/article: 161. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Propaganda or public call for unleashing of aggressive war
1. Propaganda or public call for unleashing of aggressive war – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
2. The same act, commited through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks, or online platforms, or an official, holding a responsible public position, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 380. Original section/article: 161. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 381. Original section/article: 162. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Manufacture, purchase or sale of weapons of mass destruction 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 382. Original section/article: 162. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Production, acquisition or sale of chemical, biological, nuclear, as well as other types of weapons of mass destruction prohibited by an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 383. Original section/article: 162. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 384. Original section/article: 163. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Application of prohibited means and methods of conduct of war
1. Abusive treatment of war prisoners or civil population, deportation of civil population, destruction or plunder of national property in the occupied territory, application of means and methods, prohibited by international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the armed conflict, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
2.The use of weapons of mass destruction prohibited by an international treaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan,-
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 385. Original section/article: 163. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 386. Original section/article: 164. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of Laws or customs of war
1. Coercion of persons, laid down arms or not having means of protection, wounded, afflicted persons, shipwrecked, medical workers, sanitary and religious personnel, war prisoners, civil population in the occupied territory or in the area of military operations, other persons, using international protection during military actions, to the service in the armed forces of enemy, or to resettlement or deprivation of their right to independent and unbiased court, or restriction of a right of these persons to protection in a criminal proceedings – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
2. Murder of persons, listed in the first part of this Article, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 387. Original section/article: 164. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 388. Original section/article: 165. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Criminal violations of standards of international humanitarian law during armed conflicts
Violation of standards of international humanitarian law during armed conflicts, consisting in change of non-defended locality and demilitarized zones in the object of attack or violation of armistice agreements, suspension of military actions or local agreements, concluded in order of export, exchange or transportation of wounded and dead, left on the battlefield or commission of attack against civil population or civilian objects, or moving the part of its own civilian population to the occupied territory, or unreasonable delay of repatriation of war prisoners and civilians, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years.

Section 389. Original section/article: 166. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Omission or giving of criminal order during armed conflict
1. Intentional non-adoption of possible measures for prevention of prepared or restraint of criminal infractions and customs of war or standards of international humanitarian law, committed by subordinate, by chief or civil servant within his (her) powers during armed conflict –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to fifteen years.
2. Giving an order to subordinate by chief or civil servant during armed conflict to leave nobody alive or other certainly criminal orders or instructions, directed to commission of criminal infractions and customs of war or standards of international humanitarian law, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years.

Section 390. Original section/article: 167. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal use of signs, protected by international treaties
The deliberate use, contrary to international treaties, during military operations of the emblems of the Red Cross, Red Crescent, Red Crystal or security signs for cultural property, or other signs protected by international law, or the use of the national flag or state distinctions of an enemy, neutral State, flag or sign of an international organization –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of up to five years.

Section 391. Original section/article: 168. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Genocide
1. Genocide, in other words intentional actions, directed to complete or partial destruction of national, ethnic, racial or religious group by killing of members of this group, infliction of grievous harm to their health, forcible prevention of childbearing, forcible transfer of children, forced resettlement or creation of other living conditions, rated to physical destruction of members of this group, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life deprivation of liberty with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
2. The same actions, committed in wartime, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 392. Original section/article: 168. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 393. Original section/article: 169. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Ecocide
Mass destruction of vegetable or animal world, poisoning of the atmosphere, land and water resources, as well as commission of other actions, caused or could cause ecological disaster or environmental emergency, -
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 394. Original section/article: 169. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 395. Original section/article: 170. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mercenary activities
1. Enlistment, training, financing or other material support of mercenary, as well as its use in the armed conflict, military actions or other violent acts, directed to overthrow or subversion of constitutional order or violation of territorial integrity of the state, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or in relation of a minor, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to seventeen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
3. Participation of mercenary in the armed conflict, military actions or other violent acts, directed to overthrow or subversion of constitutional order or violation of territorial integrity of the state, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to ten years, with or without property confiscation.
4. An action, provided by third part of this Article, entailed the death of people or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 396. Original section/article: 170. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 397. Original section/article: 171. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Developing the bases (camps) of training of mercenaries
Developing a base (camp) certainly for training of mercenaries or provision of premises or land plot certainly for the same purposes -
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 398. Original section/article: 171. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 399. Original section/article: 172. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participation in the foreign armed conflicts
Intentional illegal participation of the citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the armed conflict or military actions in the territory of foreign state upon absence of signs of mercenary activities - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to nine years.
Footnote.

Section 400. Original section/article: 172. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 401. Original section/article: 173. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Attack against persons or organization, using international protection
1. Attack against representative of the foreign state or servant of international organization, using international protection, or members of his (her) family living jointly with him (her), as well as official or residential premises or means of transport of persons, using international protection, as well as kidnaping or forcible imprisonment of these persons, as well as a threat of commission of specified actions – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or with the use of weapon or objects used as weapon, or group of persons on previous concert or linked with infliction of grievous harm to health, as well as committed in order of provocation of war or complications of international relations-
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it. 
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence of committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of fifteen to twenty years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 402. Original section/article: 173. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 403. Original section/article: 174. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inciting social, national, tribal, racial, class or religious hatred 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 404. Original section/article: 174. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Deliberate actions aimed at inciting social, national, tribal, racial, class or religious discord, insulting national honor and dignity or religious feelings of citizens, as well as propaganda of exclusivity, superiority or inferiority of citizens on the basis of their attitude to religion, class, national, tribal or racial affiliation, if these acts were committed in public or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks and online platforms, as well as through the production or distribution of literature or other media, propagandizing social, national, tribal, racial, class or religious discord, –
are punishable by a fine in the amount of two thousand to seven thousand monthly calculation indices or by restriction of liberty for a period of two to seven years, or imprisonment for the same period.
2. The same actions, committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or repeatedly or connected with violence or the threat of its use, as well as committed by a person with the use of his (her) official position or by the leader of a public association, including with the use of funds received from foreign sources, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to twenty years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 405. Original section/article: 174. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 26.06.2020 № 349-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 10.07.2023 № 19-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 5. CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS AFAINST FOUNDATIONS OF
CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER AND SECURITY OF THE STATE

Section 406. Original section/article: 175. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Treason
1. Treason, in other words intentional actions of the citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, consisting in adhering to the enemy during armed conflict, as well as in spying, betraying the state secret to the foreign state, international or foreign organization or their representatives, as well as in other assistance, rendering to them in carrying out of activity, directed against national interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
2. The same actions, committed in battle situation, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life deprivation of liberty with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first part, committed in wartime, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Note. A person, committed the crimes, provided by this Article, as well as Articles 176 and 179 of this Code shall be released from criminal responsibility, if he (she) is assisted to prevention of occurrence of damage to the interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan by voluntary and timely message to the state bodies or otherways and if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 407. Original section/article: 175. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 408. Original section/article: 176. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Spying
Transfer, as well as collection, stealing or storage of details, constituting the state secrets, in order to transfer to the foreign state, international or foreign organization or their representatives, as well as transfer or collection of other details by order of foreign intelligence for use them against the national interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions are committed by foreign citizen or person without citizenship, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years.

Section 409. Original section/article: 177. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Attempt on the life of the former President of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Footnote. The title of

Section 410. Original section/article: 177. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Attempt on the life of the former President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed out of revenge for activities related to the exercise of his powers as President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 411. Original section/article: 177. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 412. Original section/article: 178. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infringement on life of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Infringement on life of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed in order of termination of his (her) state activity or out of revenge for such activity,-
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 413. Original section/article: 178. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 414. Original section/article: 179. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Propaganda or public calls for seizure or retention of power, as well as seizure or retention of power or forcible change of constitutional order of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Propaganda or public calls for forcible seizure of power or forcible retention of power in violation of Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, subversion of security of the state or forcible change of the constitutional order of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as production, storage in order to distribution or distribution of materials of such content –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of one thousand to five thousand monthly calculation indices or restriction of liberty for the term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same actions committed by a person using his or her official position or by the leader of a public association, or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, or by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, including with the use of funds received from foreign sources, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
3. The actions, directed to forcible seizure of power or forcible retention of power in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan or forcible change of constitutional order of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to seventeen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
4. Exercise of powers, being within the competence of the authorized bodies and civil servants of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the representatives of foreign state, international or foreign organization, -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of three to seven thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 415. Original section/article: 179. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 416. Original section/article: 180. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Separatist activities
1. Propaganda or public calls for violation of unitarity and integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, inviolability and inalienability of its territory or disintegration of the state, as well as production, storage in order to distribution or distribution of materials of such content –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of one thousand to five thousand monthly calculation indices or restriction of liberty for the term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same actions committed by a person using his or her official position or by the leader of a public association, or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, or by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, including with the use of funds received from foreign sources, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
3. The actions, committed in order of violation of unitarity and integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, inviolability and inalienability of its territory or disintegration of the state,-
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 417. Original section/article: 180. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 418. Original section/article: 181. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Armed rebellion
1. Organization of armed rebellion in order to overthrow or change of constitutional order or violation of unitarity and integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, inviolability and inalienability of its territory, as well as seizure or retention of power –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to twenty years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
2. Participation in the armed rebellion – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to seventeen years with deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 419. Original section/article: 181. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 420. Original section/article: 182. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation, management of extremist group or participation in its activity
1. Creation of extremist group, as well as its management – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to seventeen years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation in activity of extremist group or crimes, committed by it – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or leader of public association, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to seventeen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Note. A person that terminated participation in activity of extremist group on a voluntary basis shall be released from a criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. 
Footnote.

Section 421. Original section/article: 182. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 422. Original section/article: 183. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Giving permission for publication the extremist materials in the mass media
Giving permission for publication of details and materials, directed to fomentation of national, generic, racial, social and religious enmity, promoting class exclusivity, war, containing the calls for forcible seizure of power, forcible retention of power, subversion of the security of the state or forcible change of the constitutional order, as well as violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in print and other mass media,-
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or corrective labors for the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term up to two years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 423. Original section/article: 183. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 424. Original section/article: 184. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Sabotage
Commission of explosion, arson or other actions, directed to mass destruction of people, infliction of harm to their health, destruction or damaging of enterprises, constructions, ways and means of communication, means of communication, objects of life support of people in order to subversion of security and defense capacity of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as commission of mass poisoning or advance of epidemics and epizootics – 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 425. Original section/article: 184. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 426. Original section/article: 185. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal collection, dissemination, disclosure of the state secrets
1. Illegal collection of details, constituting the state secrets, as well as dissemination of illegally obtained details, constituting the state secrets, in the absence of the signs of the state treason or spying – 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. Disclosure of details, constituting the state secrets, by person, to whom they were entrusted or became known in the service, at work, or by other grounds, provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the absence of signs of the state treason –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are entailed infliction of heavy damage or occurrence of other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.

Section 427. Original section/article: 186. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Loss of the carriers of details, containing the state secrets
1. Loss of the carriers of details, containing the state secrets by negligence, by person, to whom they were entrusted in the service, at work or by other grounds, provided by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if the loss was the result of violation of established rules of dealing with carriers of details, constituting the state secrets, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of heavy damage or occurrence of other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 428. Original section/article: 186. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 6. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINS PROPERTY

Section 429. Original section/article: 187. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Petty stealing
1. Petty stealing, in other words theft, fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement of other property, committed in the insignificant amount – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. Petty stealing, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days. 
Footnote.

Section 430. Original section/article: 186. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 431. Original section/article: 188. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft
1. Theft, in other words covert theft of other property, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it .
2. Theft, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) is excluded by Law№ 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
4) by illegal access to the information system or change of information, transmitted through telecommunications networks, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
3. A theft committed:
1) on a large scale; 
2) repeatedly;
3) with unlawful entry into a residential, office or industrial premises, storage or vehicle -
shall be punished with restriction of liberty for a term of two to seven years or with imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
4. A theft committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) from an oil and gas pipeline;
3) on an especially large scale – 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 432. Original section/article: 188. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 433. Original section/article: 188-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cattle raiding 
1. Cattle raiding, i.e. the stealing of cattle of another, –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. Cattle raiding committed:
1) by a group of persons by previous concert;
2) on a large scale –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to seven years with confiscation of property. 
3. Cattle raiding committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) with penetration into the courtyard of residential premises, enterprise, organization, institution, stockyard, stock pen or another storage –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
4. Cattle raiding committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) on an especially large scale –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Note. The cattle in this article means: 
cattle;
horses and donkeys;
camels;
small cattle;
pigs.
Footnote. Chapter 6 is supplemented with

Section 434. Original section/article: 188-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 435. Original section/article: 189. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Appropriation or embezzlement of entrusted another's property
1. Appropriation or embezzlement, in other words theft of another’s property, entrusted to guilty person, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of life for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it. 
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group persons on previous concert;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labors for the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restriction of liberty for a term not exceeding four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) on a large scale;
2) by person, authorized to perform other state functions, or person equated to him (her), or civil servant, or person, holding responsible state position, if they are linked with the use of his (her) official position by them, - 
3) repeatedly, – 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of two to three times the value of the stolen property, or by restriction of liberty for a term of two to seven years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property and with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to six years, or without such deprivation, and in cases provided for in paragraph 2), the punishment shall be a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the value of the stolen property, or deprivation of liberty for a term of two to seven years, with confiscation of property and with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) on a special large scale, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of three to five times the value of the stolen property, or by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years, with confiscation of property and with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years or without such deprivation, and in cases provided for in paragraph 2) of part three of this article, the punishment shall include lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 436. Original section/article: 189. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 437. Original section/article: 190. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Fraud
1. Fraud, in other words theft of another’s property or acquisition of right to another’s property by false pretenses or abuse of trust, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property. 
2. Fraud, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
4) by deception or abuse of trust of a user of an information system or the Internet;
5) in the scope of the state purchases, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to three years or without it. 
3. Fraud, committed:
1) on a large scale;
2) by person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person equated to him (her), or civil servant, or person, holding responsible state position, if they are linked with the use of his (her) official position by them;
3) in relation of two or more persons, 
4) repeatedly, -
shall be punishable by a fine of two to three times the value of the stolen property, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to six years or without such deprivation, and in cases provided for in paragraph 2), – a fine of ten to twenty times the value of the stolen property or imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) on a special large scale, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of three to five times the value of the stolen property, or by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to ten years, with confiscation of property and with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years or without such deprivation, and in cases provided for in paragraph 2) of part three of this article, the punishment shall include lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 438. Original section/article: 190. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 439. Original section/article: 191. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Robbery
1. Robbery, in other words theft of another’s property, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it. 
2. Robbery, committed:
1) with use of force, not dangerous to life or health of injured person, or with the threat of use of such force;
2) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
3) by group of persons on previous concert;
4) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
3. Robbery committed:
1) on a large scale;
2) repeatedly;
3) with unlawful entry into residential, office, industrial premises or storage –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) on a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 440. Original section/article: 191. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 441. Original section/article: 192. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Robbery with violence
1. Robbery with violence, in other words an attack in order to theft of another’s property, connected with violence, dangerous to life or health of person, came under attack, or with the threat of direct use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with confiscation of property.
2. Robbery with violence, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
3) is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); 
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) with infliction of grievous harm to health, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. Robbery with violence committed:
1) with the infliction of grievous bodily harm, resulting in the death of the victim through negligence; 
2) for the purpose of theft of property on a large scale;
3) repeatedly;
4) with unlawful entry into residential, office, industrial premises or storage –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) on a specially large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 442. Original section/article: 192. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 443. Original section/article: 193. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft of items, having special value
1. Theft of items or documents, having special historical, scientific, artistic or cultural value, independent from the method of theft – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to six years with confiscation of property or without it.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The same actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) entailed destruction or damage of items or documents, specified in a first part of this Article, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twelve years with confiscation of property.

Section 444. Original section/article: 194. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Extortion
1. Extortion, in other words requirement of transfer of another’s property or right to property or commission of other actions of property nature under the threat of use of force or destruction or damage of another’s property, as well as under the threat of dissemination of details, dishonoring the injured person or his (her) relatives, or other details, disclosure of which may inflict substantial harm to the interests of injured person or his (her) relatives, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it. 
2. Extortion, committed:
1) with use of force;
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
3. Extortion, committed:
1) with infliction of grievous harm to health of injured person;
2) in order of acquisition of property on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) on a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to fifteen years with confiscation of property. 
Footnote.

Section 445. Original section/article: 194. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 446. Original section/article: 195. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infliction of property damage by false pretenses or abuse of trust
1. Infliction of property damage to the possessor or other owner of property by false pretenses or abuse of trust in the absence of signs of theft-
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
3) by illegal access to the information system or change of information, transmitted through telecommunications networks, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) inflicted heavy damage,-
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
5. The acts provided for in parts one, two, three or four of this article, if they have caused particularly large damage, shall be
punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of up to ten years or without it, and in cases provided for in paragraph 2) of part three of this article, – with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 447. Original section/article: 195. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 448. Original section/article: 196. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acquisition or sale of property, certainly obtained by illegal means
1. Previously not promised acquisition or sale of property, certainly obtained by illegal means, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or by arrest for a term of up to forty days, with or without confiscation of property, with property confiscation or without it.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with or without confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) in relation of vehicle, oil and oil products or other property on a large scale;
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) in relation of monuments of history, culture, as well as items, documents, having special historical, scientific, artistic or cultural value, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 449. Original section/article: 196. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 450. Original section/article: 197. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Transportation, acquisition, realization, storage of oil and oil products, as well as oil refining without documents, confirming legality of their origin
Footnote.

Section 451. Original section/article: 197. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 452. Original section/article: 198. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infringement of copyright and (or) related rights
1. Illegal use of objects of copyright and (or) related rights, as well as acquisition, storage, transfer or production of pirated copies of objects of copyright and (or) related rights in order of sale or appropriation of authorship or compulsion to co-authorship –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours.
2. The same actions, if they are committed by a significant amount or inflicted significant damage or substantial harm to the rights or legal interests of author or other possessor of right, or committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
3. The actions, provided by second part of this Article, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) on a large scale or inflicted heavy damage;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
4. The actions, provided by second or third parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of three to six years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 453. Original section/article: 198. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 454. Original section/article: 199. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infringement of rights to invention, utility models, industrial designs, selection achievements or topologies of integrated microcircuits
1. Disclosure of details before official publication without the consent of author or applicant of nature of invention, utility model, industrial design, selection achievement or topology of integrated microcircuit, as well as appropriation of authorship or compulsion to co-authorship or illegal use of invention, utility model, industrial design, selection achievement or topology of integrated microcircuit – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours.
2. The same actions, if they arecommitted by a significant amount or inflicted significant damage or substantial harm to the rights or legal interests of author or other possessor of right, or committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
3. The actions, provided by second part of this Article, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) on a large scale or inflicted heavy damage;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
4. The actions, provided by second or third parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of three to six years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 455. Original section/article: 199. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 456. Original section/article: 200. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal occupation of automobile or other means of transport without intent of theft
1. Illegal occupation of automobile or other means of transport without intent of theft – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with use of force, not dangerous to life or health, or the threat of use of such force,- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term. 
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or inflicted heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to eight years.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed with use of force, dangerous to life or health, or with the threat of use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 457. Original section/article: 200. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 458. Original section/article: 201. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of proprietary rights to land 
1. Illegal entering into another’s land plot, entailed infliction of substantial harm to the rights or interests of citizens or organizations, protected by the Law or interests of society or the state, protected by the Law, committed with use of force or the threat of its use or by group of persons or accompanied by illegal search, as well as illegal seizure of another’s land plot – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years. 
Footnote.

Section 459. Original section/article: 201. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 460. Original section/article: 202. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional destruction or damaging of another’s property
1. Intentional destruction or damaging of another’s property, inflicted significant damage, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of five hundred to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of three hundred to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action:
1) committed by arson, explosion or other dangerous way;
2) entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to health by negligence;
3) committed due to execution of official or social duty by injured person or in relation of his (her) close relatives for the same reasons;
4) committed on grounds of social, national, racial or religious enmity;
5) inflicted heavy damage;
6) committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior conspiracy;
7) committed repeatedly, -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of three thousand to seven thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The acts stipulated by parts one or two of this article:
1) resulting in the death of a person through negligence;
2) resulting in especially large-scale damage;
3) committed by a criminal group, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 461. Original section/article: 202. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 462. Original section/article: 203. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional destruction, export of or damage to special value items 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 463. Original section/article: 203. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
1. Intentional destruction or damaging of monuments of history, culture, natural complexes or objects, taken under protection of the state, as well as items or documents, having special historical, scientific, artistic or cultural value, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
1-1. Illegal export of cultural valuables and items of national cultural property from the Republic of Kazakhstan or a failure to return them in the Republic of Kazakhstan - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to seven years. 
2. The act provided for by part one of this article:
1) committed by arson, explosion or other dangerous way;
2) entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to health by negligence;
3) committed on grounds of social, national, racial or religious enmity;
4) committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior conspiracy;
5) committed repeatedly, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
3. Acts stipulated by parts one or two of this article, which have caused the death of a person by negligence, as well as committed by a criminal group,-
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years.
Footnote.

Section 464. Original section/article: 203. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 465. Original section/article: 204. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Negligent destruction or damaging of another’s property
1. Destruction or damaging of another’s property, committed by negligence, inflicted heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days. 
2. The same action, committed by careless handling of fire or other sources of increased danger or entailed grave consequences or inflicted especially heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 466. Original section/article: 204. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 7. CRIMINAL INFRACTION IN THE SCOPE OF
INFORMATIZATION AND COMMUNICATION

Section 467. Original section/article: 205. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unauthorized access to information
Footnote. The title of

Section 468. Original section/article: 205. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Intentional illegal access to legally protected information contained on electronic media or to an information system, resulting in significant damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same action, committed against critically important objects of information and communication infrastructure, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or corrective labors for the same amount, or by community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term up to two years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 469. Original section/article: 205. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 470. Original section/article: 206. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal destruction or modification of information
1. Intentional illegal destruction or modification of legally protected information contained on electronic media, information technology facilities, as well as the introduction of knowingly false information into information technology facilities, if this has caused significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or corrective labors for the same amount, or by community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term up to two years or without it.
2. Intentional illegal destruction or modification of legally protected information contained on a critical information and communication infrastructure object, as well as entering knowingly false information into it –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
2-1. Acts specified in parts one or two of this article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by a group of persons by prior agreement, – 
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, which have caused serious consequences through negligence, shall be punished 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 471. Original section/article: 206. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 472. Original section/article: 207. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disruption of the operation of an object of informatization
Footnote. The title of

Section 473. Original section/article: 207. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Intentional actions (inaction) aimed at disrupting the operation of an object of informatization, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same acts committed in relation to critical objects of information and communication infrastructure, – 
shall be punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
2-1. Acts specified in parts one or two of this article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by a group of persons by prior agreement, –
shall be punishable by a fine of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to four years.
3. Acts specified in parts one, two or 2-12-12-12-1of this article:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) entailed grave consequences,-
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 474. Original section/article: 207. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 475. Original section/article: 208. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal acquisition of information
1. Intentional illegal copying or other illegal appropriation of legally protected information contained in an information system or stored on electronic media, if this has caused significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor of the same amount, or community service for up to one hundred and eighty hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to two years.
2. Intentional illegal copying or other illegal appropriation of legally protected information stored at a critical objects of information and communications infrastructure, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. Acts specified in parts one or two of this article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by a group of persons by prior agreement, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
4. The acts referred to in parts one, two, or three of this article:
1) committed by a criminal group;
2) resulting in serious consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to four years.
Footnote.

Section 476. Original section/article: 208. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 477. Original section/article: 209. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Coercion to transmission of information
1. Coercion to transmission of legally protected information contained on electronic media or an object of informatization under threat of violence or destruction or damage to property, as well as under threat of disclosure of information that would disgrace the victim or his or her relatives, or other information whose disclosure could cause significant harm to the interests of the victim or his or her relative, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same action:
1) linked with use of physical abuse against the person or his (her) relatives;
2) committed by group of persons on previous concert;
3) committed to obtain information from critically important objects of information and communication infrastructure, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) entailed grave consequences,-
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 478. Original section/article: 209. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 479. Original section/article: 210. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation, use or distribution of malicious computer programs and program products 
1. Creation of a computer program, software product or introduction of modifications into existing program or software product for the purpose of illegal destruction, blocking, modification, copying, use of information, contained on electronic media or an object of informatization, disfunction of work of computer, subscriber device, an object of informatization, as well as intentional use and (or) distribution of such program or software product –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) by person with use of his (her) official position;
3) in respect of critically important objects of information and communication infrastructure, – 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) entailed grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 480. Original section/article: 210. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2017 № 128-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 481. Original section/article: 211. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal distribution of electronic information resources of restricted access
1. Illegal distribution of electronic information resources, containing personal data of citizens or other details, an access of which is restricted by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan or other possessor or owner, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) for selfish motives;
3) by person with use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours or by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) entailed grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 482. Original section/article: 211. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 483. Original section/article: 212. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of services for allocation of internet resources, pursuing illegal purposes
1. Certainly illegal rendering of services on provision of hardware and software complexes, operating in open information and communication network, for allocation of internet resources, pursuing illegal purposes, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years.
2. The same action, committed by group of persons on previous concert or criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 484. Original section/article: 212. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 485. Original section/article: 213. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal change of identification code of subscriber device of cell communication, subscriber identification device, as well as creation, use, distribution of programs for change of identification code of subscriber device
1. Change of identification code of subscriber device of cell communication, creation of duplicate card of subscriber identification of cell communication, if these actions are committed without the consent of producer or legal owner, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. Illegal creation, use, distribution of programs, allowing to change identification code of subscriber device of cell communication or create duplicate card of subscriber identification of cell communication, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 486. Original section/article: 212. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 8. CRIMINAL INFRACTION IN THE SCOPE OF
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY

Section 487. Original section/article: 214. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal entrepreneurial activity
Footnote. The title of

Section 488. Original section/article: 214. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law № 262-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Carrying out an entrepreneurial activity hich is mandatory for such activities, or with violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permits and notifications, as well as engaging in prohibited types of entrepreneurial activities, if these acts caused large-scale damage to a citizen, organization or the state or are associated with deriving large-scale income or with manufacturing, storing, transferring or selling excise goods in significant amounts, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
2. The same action:
1) committed by criminal group;
2) linked with deriving of income on a special large scale;
3) committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Note. A person, committed for the first time the action, provided for in part 1 of this Article, shall be exempted from criminal responsibility in the event of voluntary compensation for the damage.
Footnote.

Section 489. Original section/article: 214. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication № 262-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 03.07.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 490. Original section/article: 214-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal banking and microfinance activities
1. Engaging in banking activities (banking operations) or microfinance activities without registration, as well as without the license required for such activities or in violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permits and notifications, if this act caused significant damage to a citizen, organization, or the state, or is associated with the extraction of income on a large scale, – 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same act:
1) committed by a criminal group;
2) involving the extraction of income on an especially large scale;
3) committed repeatedly, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Note. A person who has committed an act provided for in part one of this article for the first time shall be exempt from criminal liability in the event of voluntary compensation for damage.
Footnote. Chapter 8 was supplemented with

Section 491. Original section/article: 214-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 492. Original section/article: 214-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal debt collection activities
1. Engaging in collection activities without registration, as well as without the mandatory accounting registration for such activities, or after the exclusion of the collection agency from the register of collection agencies, or in violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on permits and notifications, if this act caused significant damage to a citizen, organization, or the state, or is associated with the extraction of income on a large scale, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same act:
1) committed by a criminal group;
2) involving the extraction of income on an especially large scale;
3) committed repeatedly, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Note. A person who has committed an act provided for in part one of this article for the first time shall be exempt from criminal liability in the event of voluntary compensation for damage.
Footnote. Chapter 8 was supplemented with

Section 493. Original section/article: 214-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 494. Original section/article: 215. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Pseudo-entrepreneurship
Footnote.

Section 495. Original section/article: 215. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 496. Original section/article: 216. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Commission of actions on invoicing without actual performance of works, rendering of services, shipment of goods
1. Commission of actions on invoicing without actual performance of works, rendering of services, shipment of goods by subject of private entrepreneurship in order to deriving of property profit, inflected heavy damage to the citizen, organization or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. An action, provided by first part of this Article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) by person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person, civil servant or person, holding responsible state position, equated with him (her), if they are linked with use of his (her) official position by them -
5) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, and in the cases provided for by paragraph 4), and with life deprivation of liberty of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or inflicted a special heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to seven years with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity or without it.
Footnote.

Section 497. Original section/article: 216. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 498. Original section/article: 217. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation and management of financial (investment) pyramid
1. Creation of financial (investment) pyramid, in other words organization of activity on deriving of income (property profit) from attraction of money or other property or right to it of individuals and (or) legal entities without use of attracted funds to entrepreneurial activity, ensuring accepted obligations, by redistribution of these shares and enrichment of some participants at the expense of contributions of others, as well as management of financial (investment) pyramid or its structural subdivision – 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of one thousand to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with use of his (her) official position;
4) involving money or other property or the right to it in a large size, – 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined positions or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) with the attraction of money, other property or the right to it in an especially large amount;
3) be person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person, civil servant or person, holding responsible state position, equated with him (her), if they are linked with use of his (her) official position by them, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years, and in the cases provided for in paragraph 3), with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Note. A person, except for organizer of financial (investment) pyramid, voluntary declared on aiding the creation of financial (investment) pyramid or its management or management of its structural subdivision, as well as actively contributed to disclosure or suppression of its activity shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. 
Footnote.

Section 499. Original section/article: 217. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2022 № 139-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication);

Section 500. Original section/article: 217-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Advertising financial (investment) pyramid 
1. Advertising of a financial (investment) pyramid scheme, i.e. personal and direct dissemination of information publicly or through the use of mass media, telecommunication networks or online platforms, which entailed the involvement of persons with significant harm, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to sixty hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The action provided for by the first part of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior collusion;
2) repeatedly;
3) by a person using his official position, -
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
Footnote. Chapter 8 shall be supplemented by

Section 501. Original section/article: 217-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2022 № 139-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 502. Original section/article: 218. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Legalization (laundering) of money and (or) other property, received by criminal way
1. Involvement in legal circulation of money and (or) other property obtained by criminal means through transactions in the form of conversion or transfer of property representing proceeds of criminal offenses, including any proceeds from property obtained by criminal means, or possession and use of such property, concealment or withholding of its true nature, source, location, method of disposal, movement, rights to property or its belonging, if it is known that such property represents the proceeds of criminal offenses, as well as mediation in legalization of money and (or) other property obtained by criminal means –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restraint of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of three thousand to seven thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person, civil servant or person, holding responsible state position, equated with him (her), if they are linked with use of his (her) official position by them;
2) by criminal group;
3) on the large scales, - 
shall be penalized by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, and in the cases referred to in paragraph 1), with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Note. A person, voluntary declared on prepared or committed legalization of money and (or) property, received by criminal way shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of crimes, provided by second or third parts of this Article or other crime.
Footnote.

Section 503. Original section/article: 218. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.08.2015 № 343-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 08.04.2016 № 489-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 504. Original section/article: 218-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Concealment of illegally acquired assets from circulation to the state revenue, as well as their legalization (laundering) 
1. Concealment by a subject and (or) an affiliated person, as defined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return to the state of illegally acquired assets", of illegally acquired assets in large amounts from circulation to the state income by submitting knowingly unreliable, incomplete or distorted information in the declaration on disclosure of assets submitted in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return to the state of illegally acquired assets", –
is punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for up to five years, or imprisonment for the same period, with confiscation of property.
2. Involvement by a subject and (or) an affiliated person, as defined by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return to the state of illegally acquired assets", to the legal circulation of assets specified in part one of this Article, or any large-scale income from them through transactions for their alienation, conversion or transfer, concealment or concealment of their true nature, the source, location, method of disposal, transfer, rights to assets or their ownership, or mediation in the commission of the above actions, as well as alienation and (or) encumbrance in any form, as well as the transfer of large–scale assets to trust management without prior or proper or timely notification to the authorized body for asset recovery in accordance with the procedure established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the return to the state of illegally acquired assets " -
are punishable by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or restriction of freedom for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same period, with confiscation of property.
3. The acts provided for in parts one or two of this Article committed:
1) by a group of persons by prior agreement;
2) repeatedly;
3) by a person using his official position, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of three thousand to seven thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with confiscation of property.
4. The acts provided for in parts one, two or three of this Article committed by:
1) a person authorized to perform public functions, or a person equated to him, or an official, or a person holding a responsible public position, if they involve the use of his official position;
2) a criminal group;
3) on a particularly large scale, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, and in the cases provided for in paragraph 1) of this part, – with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Notes.
1. A person who has voluntarily declared the upcoming or committed actions provided for in this article shall be released from criminal liability if his actions do not contain elements of crimes provided for in parts three and four of this article, or another crime.
2. "Assets" in this article means property benefits or rights (property) located in the Republic of Kazakhstan or abroad, including any property benefits or rights extracted (extracted) from this property or acquired at the expense of this property.
Footnote. Chapter 8 is supplemented by

Section 505. Original section/article: 218-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 506. Original section/article: 219. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal obtaining of credit or unauthorized use of budget credit
Footnote.

Section 507. Original section/article: 219. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
has been excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 113-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 508. Original section/article: 220. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unauthorized use of money, received from placement of bonds
Making decisions, entailed violation of conditions and order of use of money, received from placement of bonds, established by prospectus of issue of bonds of this issuer, by the bodies of the issuer (civil servants of the issuer), not being financial organization, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 509. Original section/article: 220. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 510. Original section/article: 221. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Monopolistic activity
1. Establishment and (or) support of monopoly high (low) or agreed prices by market entities, establishment of restrictions on resale of acquired goods (works, services) from market entity, occupying a dominant or monopolistic position, on territorial basis, group of buyers, purchase conditions, quality or price, division of goods markets on territorial basis, assortment of goods (works, services), volume of its sale or acquirement, on group of sellers or buyers, as well as other actions, directed to restriction of competition, if they are inflicted heavy damage to the citizen, organization or the state or linked with deriving of income on a large amount by the market entity, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or by a person with the use of his official position, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first and second parts of this Article, committed:
1) be criminal group;
2) with the use of force or threat of its use, as well as with destruction or damaging of another’s property or with the threat of its destruction or damaging in the absence of signs of extortion, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
Note. A person, committed for the first time the action, provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall be exempted from criminal liability in the event of voluntary compensation for the damage.
Footnote.

Section 511. Original section/article: 221. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 512. Original section/article: 222. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal use of a trademark, service mark, trade name, geographical indication and appellation of origin of goods 
1. Illegal use of another's trademark, service mark, trade name, geographical indication and appellation of origin of goods or similar designations for similar goods or services, if this act caused major damage, –
is punishable by a fine of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or community work for up to eighty hours, or arrest for up to twenty days.
2. Illegal use of a warning label in relation to a trademark, service mark, geographical indication and appellation of origin of goods not registered in the Republic of Kazakhstan, if this act caused major damage, –
is punishable by a fine of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or correctional labor in the same amount, or community work for up to eighty hours, or arrest for up to twenty days.
Note. A person who has committed an act provided for in this article for the first time shall be released from criminal liability in the case of voluntary compensation for damage.
Footnote.

Section 513. Original section/article: 222. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 20.06.2022 № 128-VII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 514. Original section/article: 223. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal acquisition, disclosure or use of information, constituting commercial or banking secret, tax secret, obtained in the course of horizontal monitoring, the secret of providing microcredit, the secret of collection activity, as well as information related to the legalization of property
Footnote. The title of

Section 515. Original section/article: 223. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019). 
1. Collection of information, constituting commercial or banking secret, tax secret, obtained in the course of horizontal monitoring, the secret of providing microcredit, the secret of collection activity, as well as information, related to the procedure of legalization of property by stealing documents, bribery or threats against persons, owning commercial or banking secret, tax secret, obtained in the course of horizontal monitoring, secret of providing microcredit, secret of collection activity, or their close ones, interception in the means of communication, illegal entry into the computer system or network, use of special technical means, as well as other illegal way in order to disclose or illegal use of this information –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Illegal disclosure or use of information constituting commercial or banking secret, tax secret, obtained in the course of horizontal monitoring, secret of providing microcredit, secret of collection activity, without the consent of their owner by a person to whom they were entrusted on service or work, committed for selfish or other personal interest and caused a heavy damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Illegal disclosure or other illegal use by officials of state bodies of information and data on transactions involving money and/or other property received from financial monitoring entities, if this has caused significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
4. Illegal disclosure or other illegal use by officials of the state bodies, employees of organizations, of details and information on transactions with money and (or) other property, obtained in the performance of their official duties, which are established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, repatriates and persons, having a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in connection with property legalization by them", –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 516. Original section/article: 223. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.05.2017 № 63-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of twenty-one calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 25.12.2017 № 122-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 517. Original section/article: 224. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of procedure of issuance of equity securities 
Adding knowingly false details in the prospectus of issuance of equity securities, as well as preparation of knowingly false report on results of placement of equity securities, if these actions are inflicted a heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 518. Original section/article: 224. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 519. Original section/article: 225. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-provision of information or presentation of knowingly false details by civil servant of issuer of securities
Non-provision of information or presentation of knowingly false details to the state bodies and security holders by the civil servants of the issuer of securities in order to deriving of property profit, inflicted a heavy damage to the security holders or the issuer, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 520. Original section/article: 225. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 521. Original section/article: 226. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Adding of knowingly false details in the register of security holders
1. Adding knowingly false details in the register of security holders entailed the transfer of rights to these securities to other person, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. The same action, inflicted a heavy damage,-
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 522. Original section/article: 226. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 523. Original section/article: 227. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Presentation of knowingly false details by professional participants of market securities
Presentation of knowingly false details on quantity and types of securities, being in the personal accounts of security holders, and on securities transactions in order to deriving the property profit, inflicted a heavy damage, by professional participants of securities market to the state bodies and securities holders, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 524. Original section/article: 227. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 525. Original section/article: 228. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of conducting of securities transactions
1. Violation of rules of conducting of securities transactions, inflicted a heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly or by group of persons on previous concert,- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 526. Original section/article: 228. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 527. Original section/article: 229. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Manipulation on the securities market
1. Manipulation on the securities market, in other words the actions of the market entities of securities, directed to establishment and (or) support of securities prices higher or lower than those that were established as a result of objective correlations of supply and demand or to creation the appearance of securities trading, if these actions are inflicted a heavy damage to the citizen, organization or the state, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without it, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same action:
1) committed repeatedly;
2) inflicted a special heavy damage;
3) committed by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 528. Original section/article: 229. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 529. Original section/article: 230. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal actions in relation of insider information
1. Intentional use of insider information upon settlement of transaction (transactions) with securities (derivative financial instruments) or intentional illegal transfer of insider information to the third parties or intentional illegal provision of access to insider information to the third parts, as well as intentional provision of recommendations on settlement of transaction (transactions) with securities (derivative financial instruments), based on the insider information, to the third persons, if these actions are inflicted a heavy damage to the citizen, organization or the state, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without it, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same actions:
1) committed by group of persons on previous concert;
2) inflicted a special heavy damage;
3) committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 530. Original section/article: 230. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 531. Original section/article: 231. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Production, storage, transportation, or sale of counterfeit money or securities
1. Production or storage in order to sale, sale of counterfeit bank notes and coins of National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, state securities or other securities in currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan or foreign currency- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with confiscation of property or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) on a large scale;
4) with transfer through the State boundary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.

Section 532. Original section/article: 232. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Production or sale of counterfeit charge cards and other payment or calculation documents
1. Production in order to sale or sale of counterfeit charge cards, as well as other payment or calculation documents, not being securities, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years with confiscation of property.
2. The same acts, committed repeatedly or criminal group, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to six years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 533. Original section/article: 232. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 534. Original section/article: 232-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal provision, transfer, and acquisition of access to a bank account, payment instrument, or identification means, as well as illegal execution of payments and/or money transfers
1. Illegal provision of access to one's bank account, payment instrument, or means of identification to a third party, or their illegal transfer to a third party for material remuneration and (or) property benefits, or for the purpose of obtaining them, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with confiscation of property.
2. An act referred to in part one of this article that resulted in the receipt of material remuneration or property benefits of a significant amount, or that was committed with the aim of receiving such remuneration or benefits, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
3. The acts referred to in part one of this article, which resulted in the receipt of material remuneration or property benefits on a large scale, or which were committed with the aim of obtaining such remuneration or benefits, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
4. Illegal execution of payments and/or money transfers using a bank account or payment instrument or means of identification in the interests of a third party or for the benefit of a third party in exchange for material remuneration or property benefits, or with the aim of obtaining them –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor of the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
5. An act provided for in part four of this article, which resulted in the receipt of material remuneration or property benefits of a significant amount, or was committed with the aim of obtaining them, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
6. An act provided for in part four of this article, which resulted in the receipt of material remuneration or property benefits on a large scale, or was committed with the aim of obtaining them, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
7. Illegal acquisition of access to the management of a bank account or payment instrument or means of identification for the purpose of making illegal payments and money transfers –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Note: A person who has committed a criminal infraction under this article for the first time, voluntarily reported it, and actively contributed to the disclosure or suppression of this infraction shall be exempt from criminal liability if their actions do not constitute another criminal infraction.
Footnote. Chapter 8 was supplemented with

Section 535. Original section/article: 232-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 536. Original section/article: 233. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Breach of the procedure and rules of marking excisable goods by identification means and (or) accounting and control stamps, forgery and use of identification means and (or) accounting and control stamps 
Footnote. Heading as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 31.12.2021 № 100 (effective from 01.01.2022).
1. Breach of the procedure and rules of marking excisable goods by identification means and (or) accounting and control marks, which caused significant damage, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. Manufacture or acquisition for the purpose of sale, as well as the use or sale of knowingly counterfeit identification means and (or) accounting and control stamps -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Note. A person, committed for the first time the action, provided for in this Article shall be exempted from criminal responsibility in the event of voluntary compensation for the damage.
Footnote.

Section 537. Original section/article: 233. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 31.12.2021 № 100 (effective from 01.01.2022).

Section 538. Original section/article: 233-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Transportation, acquisition, sale, storage of oil and petroleum products, as well as processing of oil acquired without documents confirming the legality of its origin
1. Transportation, acquisition, sale, storage of oil and petroleum products, as well as processing of oil acquired without documents confirming the legality of its origin, committed on a large scale, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for up to forty days.
2. the same acts, committed repeatedly, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, committed on a large scale, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
4. The acts referred to in parts one, two, or three of this article, committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) on a particularly large scale, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to six years, with or without confiscation of property.
Footnote. Chapter 8 was supplemented with

Section 539. Original section/article: 233-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 540. Original section/article: 234. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Economic smuggling 
1. Movement in large quantities across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union of goods or other items, including goods, articles and valuables prohibited or restricted from movement across the customs border, in respect of which special rules for movement across the customs border have been established, or illegal movement across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan of goods or other items in respect of which a ban or restriction on movement across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been established, with the exception of those specified in

Section 541. Original section/article: 286. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, committed in spite of or with concealment from customs control or with the fraudulent use of documents or means of customs identification, or associated with non-declaration or knowingly false declaration or with the indication of knowingly false information in the application for release of goods prior to handing in the goods declaration or in the application for the performance of operations in respect of temporarily moved vehicles of international transportation that are goods placed under the customs procedure of temporary importation (admission), including with the submission of invalid documents, counterfeit and (or) containing knowingly inaccurate (false) information, -
shall be punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by community service for up to four hundred hours, or by restriction of liberty for up to one year, or by imprisonment for the same term, with or without property confiscation.
2. The same acts, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by person with use of his (her) official position;
3) with use of force to the person, carrying out border or customs control;
4) on a special large scale;
5) by group on previous concert, - 
shall be punishable by a fine of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or by community service for up to eight hundred hours, or by restriction of liberty for up to three years, or by imprisonment for the same term, with or without property confiscation.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person, civil servant or person, holding responsible state position, equated with him (her), if they are linked with use of his (her) official position by them;
2) by criminal group, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years, with or without confiscation of property, and in the cases specified in paragraph 1), with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 542. Original section/article: 234. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 113-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 543. Original section/article: 235. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-fulfillment of the requirement of repatriation of national and (or) foreign currency 
Footnote.

Section 544. Original section/article: 235. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 545. Original section/article: 235-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal export, forwarding and transfer of currency valuables from the Republic of Kazakhstan 
1. Export, forwarding or transfer of currency values from the Republic of Kazakhstan in volumes (amounts) exceeding the true value (price) of the relevant transactions and other counter-payment obligations, including through the use of forged documents, artificial overestimation of the cost (price) of works, services, goods, –
are punishable by a fine in the amount of fifty times the amount of illegally exported, forwarded or transferred currency values, or by restriction of liberty for up to five years, or imprisonment for the same period.
2. Export, forwarding or transfer of large-scale currency valuables from the Republic of Kazakhstan to pay for works, services, goods and other reimbursable contracts in the absence of intentions of the parties to fulfill the relevant obligations to perform works, provide services, supply goods and other counter-payment obligations, including through the use of forged documents, transactions and (or) actions for the sake of appearance (without the intention to create real legal consequences), - 
are punishable by restriction of liberty for up to seven years or imprisonment for the same period.
3. The acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, if committed on an especially large scale, -
shall be punishable by restriction of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote. Chapter 8 is supplemented by

Section 546. Original section/article: 235-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 547. Original section/article: 236. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion from payment of customs duties, customs charges, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties 
Footnote. The title of

Section 548. Original section/article: 236. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Evasion from payment of customs duties, customs charges, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties in large amounts –
shall be punishable by a fine of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for up to forty days.
2. The same act, committed by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position, -
shall be punishable by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to five years.
Note. A person who has voluntarily paid the arrears on the payment of customs duties, customs charges, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, as well as penalties and interest in the case of their accrual, the amount of fines, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall be exempted from criminal liability under part one of this Article, if his (her) actions do not contain an element of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 549. Original section/article: 236. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 113-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 550. Original section/article: 237. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal action upon rehabilitation and bankruptcy
1. The concealment of property or property-related obligations, information on property, its size, location or other information on property, transfer of property into another’s possession, alienation or destruction of property, as well as the concealment, destruction, falsification of accounting documentation and (or) records or other documents reflecting economic activity, if these acts were committed by an individual entrepreneur, founder (participant), a person performing managerial functions in a commercial or another organization, an official, as well as a temporary, bankrupt or rehabilitation manager during the period of rehabilitation and bankruptcy, and caused large-scale damage -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. Unlawful satisfaction of property claims of individual creditors by an individual entrepreneur, founder (participant), person performing managerial functions in a commercial or another organization, official, and also by a temporary, bankrupt or rehabilitation manager during the period of rehabilitation and bankruptcy, which is known to be to the detriment of other creditors, if this act caused large-scale damage -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 551. Original section/article: 237. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 290-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 552. Original section/article: 238. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Premeditated bankruptcy
1. Deliberate bankruptcy, that is, the actions of a founder (participant), an official, a person performing managerial functions in a commercial or other organization, as well as an individual entrepreneur, committed in the personal interests or interests of other persons in order to evade the fulfillment of obligations to creditors by alienating or concealment of property for three years prior to declaring bankrupt a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur, which caused large damage, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. The same actions, committed by an executive employee of a financial organization, banking and (or) the insurance holding company, a major participant (major shareholder)- an individual, a head, a member of the governing body, a director, a member of the executive body, a chief accountant, a major participant (major shareholder) – the legal entity of financial organization, causing major damage to the financial organization, banking and (or) the insurance holding company, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of five years before establishing prohibition to hold the position of an executive employee of a financial organization, banking and (or) insurance holding and to be a major participant (major shareholder) of a financial organization for life.
Footnote.

Section 553. Original section/article: 238. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 27.12.2019 № 290-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 554. Original section/article: 239. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Bringing to insolvency
1. Concealment of property or property obligations, details on property, its extent, location or other information on property, transfer of property in other possession, assignment or destruction of property, as well as non-disclosure, destruction, falsification of accounting and (or) records documentation or other documents, reflecting the economic activity, if these actions (omission) are committed by incorporator (participant), civil servant, person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, bodies of legal entity, as well as individual entrepreneur, led to insolvency, inflicted a heavy damage or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. An intentional action (inaction) of an executive employee of financial organization, banking and (or) insurance holding company, the major participant (major shareholder) – an individual, a head, a member of managerial body, a director, a member of executive body, a chief accountant, a major participant (major shareholder) – a legal entity of financial organization, as well as persons temporarily or under special authority acting functions of a management body or executive body of financial organization, which led to insolvency, inflicted compulsory liquidation of the financial organization, or to classification of the bank to the category of insolvent banks, –
shall be punished with restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years or with imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of five years up to imposing a lifetime ban on holding the post of an executive officer of a financial organization, a banking and (or) an insurance holding company, and being a major participant (a major shareholder) of a financial organization.
3. Is excluded by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2). 
Footnote.

Section 555. Original section/article: 239. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 556. Original section/article: 240. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
False bankruptcy
Footnote.

Section 557. Original section/article: 240. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by Law № 290-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 558. Original section/article: 241. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on
book records and financial accountability
Footnote.

Section 559. Original section/article: 241. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
has been excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 113-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 560. Original section/article: 242. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Presentation of knowingly false details on banking operations
Submission by employees of a bank, a branch of a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan of knowingly false information about transactions on bank accounts of legal entities or individuals, as well as the issuance of guarantees, guarantees and other obligations that are obviously unsecured by the actual financial condition of this bank, a non-resident bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these actions have entailed or could have entailed the infliction of major damage to a citizen, organization or state, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 561. Original section/article: 242. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 562. Original section/article: 243. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal use of money of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Use by employees of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, own funds of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) attracted funds of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan for issuing knowingly non-repayable loans or committing transactions knowingly unprofitable for the bank, branch of the bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as provision of unreasonable guarantees of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan or unreasonable preferential terms to customers of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan or other persons, if these acts caused major damage to a citizen, organization or state, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years. 
2. Knowingly incorrect or knowingly untimely transfer by employees of a bank, a branch of a bank - a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan, of monetary amounts, including foreign currency funds on bank accounts of clients, if this act caused large damage to a citizen, organization or state, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by engagement in public works for a term of up to 120 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 563. Original section/article: 243. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 16.12.2020).

Section 564. Original section/article: 244. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion of the citizen from payment of the tax and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget 
Evasion of the citizen from payment of the tax and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget by non-presentation of the incomes declaration in the cases when submission of the declaration is obligatory, or by inclusion in the declaration or other documents connected with calculation or payment of taxes and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget, of knowingly distorted data on the incomes or expenses or on the property which is subject to taxation using the invoice without actual performance of works, rendering services, shipment of goods, if this action resulted in non-payment of tax and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget in a large amount, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term. 
Note. A person, committed an act, provided for by this Article shall be exempted from criminal liability in the event of voluntary payment of tax arrears and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget, as well as penalties, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 565. Original section/article: 244. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 566. Original section/article: 245. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion of taxes and (or) other compulsory payments in a budget with organization
1. Evasion of taxes and (or) other compulsory payments in a budget with organization by nonpresentation of declaration, when submission of declaration is compulsory, introduction of certainly distorted data on incomes or expenditures to the declaration, by concealment of other items of taxation and (or) other compulsory payments, if this action is entailed non-payment of taxes and (or) other compulsory payments on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine of two to three times the amount of unpaid payments to the budget, or by community service for up to 800 hours, or by restriction of liberty for up to three years, or by imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
2. The same act, committed:
1) with use of invoice without actual performance of works, rendering of services, shipment of goods;
2) by group of persons on previous concert,- 
shall be punished by a fine of three to five times the amount of unpaid payments to the budget, or by community service for up to one thousand hours, or by restriction of liberty for up to four years, or by imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or in a special large amount, - 
shall be punished by a fine of five to seven times the amount of unpaid payments to the budget or imprisonment for a term of five to eight years with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
Note. A person, committed an action, provided for by this Article (except for an action, committed by a criminal group) shall be exempted from criminal liability in the case of voluntary payment of tax arrears and (or) other obligatory payments to the budget, as well as penalties, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 567. Original section/article: 245. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 568. Original section/article: 246. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal actions in respect of property restricted in disposal on account of the taxpayer’s tax arrears, the payer’s arrears for customs payments, taxes, special, anti-dumping, countervailing duties, penalties, interest in the case of their accrual
Footnote. The title of

Section 569. Original section/article: 246. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2017 № 124-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018).
Embezzlement, alienation, concealment or illegal transfer of property, to which the restriction is imposed by the state revenue bodies, as well as refusal in transfer of such property in the cases provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed by a person whose property is restricted, as well as carrying out banking operations by an employee of a bank or organization, engaged in certain types of banking operations, on bank accounts, on which the state revenue bodies suspended expenditure operations, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or correctional labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 570. Original section/article: 246. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 571. Original section/article: 247. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obtain illegal remuneration
1. Illegal obtainment of material remuneration, benefits or services of property nature for performance of work or rendering of services, including in a set of responsibilities, by employee of the state body or the state organization, not being a person, authorized to exercising of the state functions, or a person, equated to him (her), as well as employee of the non-state organization, not exercising management functions,- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
3. Actions, provided for in parts one or two of this Article related to the receipt of remuneration in large amounts or associated with extortion, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Note. It shall not be a criminal infraction by virtue of insignificance and shall be prosecuted on a disciplinary basis by the person, specified in part one of this Article, material remuneration, benefits or services of a property nature as a gift in the absence of prior agreement for previously performed work or services rendered within the scope of his (her) duties, if the cost of the gift does not exceed five monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 572. Original section/article: 247. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 573. Original section/article: 248. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Coercion to the settlement of transaction or to refusal of its settlement
1. Coercion to the settlement of transaction or refusal to its settlement under the threat of application of force, destruction or damaging of another’s property, as well as dissemination of details, which may inflict substantial harm to the rights and interests of injured person or his (her) related persons, in the absence of signs of extortion – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of life for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) with use of force, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group,
- shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to six years.
Footnote.

Section 574. Original section/article: 248. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 575. Original section/article: 249. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Corporate raiding
1. Illegal acquisition of the right of ownership to a share in a legal entity, as well as the property and securities of a legal entity, or the establishment of control over a legal entity by deliberately distorting the results of voting or obstructing the free exercise of the right when a decision is made by a supreme body by entering into the minutes of a meeting, session, the extracts from them of the knowingly false information about the number of voters, quorum or voting results, or drawing up a knowingly false count of votes or accounting for voting ballots, blocking or restricting the actual access of a shareholder, participant, member of the management body or member of the executive body to voting, failure to provide information about the voting meeting, meeting or reporting false information about the time and place of the meeting, meeting, voting on behalf of a shareholder, participant or member of the management body under a knowingly false power of attorney, by violating, restricting or infringement of the right of pre-emptive purchase of securities, as well as deliberately creating obstacles in the exercise of the right of pre-emptive purchase of securities or by otherwise infringing on the rights and legitimate interests of a shareholder, participant in a legal entity when decisions are made by a general meeting of shareholders, participants, or deliberately creating obstacles to the management of a legal entity or the execution of decisions of the general meeting or the exercise of the functions of the executive body by retaining constituent or other documents of title, seals of a legal entity, which caused significant damage to the rights or legally protected interests of citizens or organizations, or to the legally protected interests of society or the state, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to two years.
1-1. Illegal acquisition of the right of ownership to a share in a legal entity, as well as property or securities of a legal entity or the establishment of control over a legal entity by forcing the owner to alienate a legal entity, a share in it, securities and other property as a result of organizing or initiating inspections in relation to this legal entity, the adoption of restrictive, prohibitive and other measures by law enforcement, regulatory or other authorized bodies or organizations or in a judicial proceeding, which caused significant damage to the rights or legally protected interests of citizens or organizations, or to the legally protected interests of society or the state, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
2. The acts provided for by parts one, 1-1 of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons by prior agreement;
2) repeatedly;
3) by a person using his official position, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of five to eight years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to eight years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) by person, authorized to perform the state functions, or person, civil servant or person, holding responsible state position, equated with him (her), if they are linked with use of his (her) official position by them,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to ten years with confiscation of property, and in the cases, provided by paragraph 2), with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
Footnote.

Section 576. Original section/article: 249. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 9. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINST THE INTERESTS OF
SERVICE IN COMMERCIAL AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

Section 577. Original section/article: 250. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of power
1. The use by a person, performing managerial functions in a commercial or other organization of his (her) powers contrary to the legitimate interests of this organization and for the purpose of obtaining benefits and advantages for himself (herself) or other persons or organizations or harming other persons or organizations, if it caused significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of citizens or organizations or interests of society or the state protected by the Law, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
2. The same actions, committed by an executive employee of financial organization, banking and (or) insurance holding company, a major participant (major shareholder) – an individual, a head, a member of the governing body, a director, a member of the executive body, a chief accountant, a major participant (major shareholder) – a legal entity of financial organization, causing large scale damage to the citizen, a legal entity, the state, financial organization, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of five years prior to establishing the prohibition to hold the position of an executive employee of a financial organization, banking and (or) insurance holding company, to be a major participant (major shareholder) of a financial organization for life.
Footnote.

Section 578. Original section/article: 250. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2015 № 422-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 579. Original section/article: 251. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of powers by a private notary, appraiser, private enforcement agent, employee of a collection agency, mediator, auditor, working as part of the audit organization or the head of the audit organization
Footnote. The title of

Section 580. Original section/article: 251. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Use by a private notary, appraiser, private enforcement agent, employee of a collection agency interacting with the debtor and (or) his representative, and (or) a third party, mediator, auditor working as part of an audit organization, or head of an audit organization, of their powers contrary to the objectives of their activities and for the purpose of obtaining benefits and advantages for themselves or other persons or organizations, or causing harm to other persons or organizations, if this act caused significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
2. The same action, committed in relation of certainly the minor or disabled person or repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 581. Original section/article: 251. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 582. Original section/article: 252. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of powers by a manager or employee of a private security organization or collection agency
Footnote. The title of

Section 583. Original section/article: 252. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Abuse of powers by a manager or employee of a private security organization granted to them in accordance with a license, as well as exceeding authority by an employee of a collection agency interacting with a debtor and (or) their representative, and (or) a third party, of the powers provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on collection activities, contrary to the objectives of their activities, if this act is committed with the use of violence or the threat of its use, the threat of destruction or damage to property, forgery of documents, blackmail, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of life for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years or without it.
2. The same action, committed with use of weapon or special means or inflicted grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 584. Original section/article: 252. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 585. Original section/article: 253. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Commercial bribery
1. Illegal transfer of money, securities or other property to the person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, as well as illegal rendering of services of property nature for the use by him (her) of his (her) official position, as well as for general protection or connivance in the service in the interests of person, performing the bribe, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or by group of persons on previous concert, or on a large extent, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the amount of the transferred money or cost of the transferred property or deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or in a special large extent, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the amount of the transferred money or cost of the transferred property or deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
4. Illegal receipt of money, securities, other property by person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, as well as use of services of property nature for the use of his (her) official position, as well as for the general protection or connivance in the service in the interests of person, performing the bribe,- 
shall be punished by a fine of ten to twenty times the amount of money transferred or the value of the property transferred, or by community service for up to 1,200 hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to two years.
5. The actions, provided by fourth part of this Article, if they:
1) committed by group of persons on previous concert;
2) committed repeatedly;
3) linked with extortion;
4) on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of sixty to seventy times the amount of the transferred money or cost of the transferred property or by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
6. The actions, provided by fourth or fifth parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group or on a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of seventy to eighty times the amount of money transferred or the value of the transferred property or deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
Note.
1. A person, committed the actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article shall be released from criminal responsibility, if in relation of his (her) an extortion took place or if he (she) voluntary informed on bribery the law-enforcement or special state body.
2. Transfer or receipt property, rendering of services of property nature or use of such services as a gift or compensation in the absence of preliminary agreement for the previously committed legal actions shall not be the crimes by virtue of insignificance and shall be prosecuted according to the disciplinary or administrative procedure, if the cost of property or services does not exceed two monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 586. Original section/article: 253. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 587. Original section/article: 254. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unconscientious attitude to the obligations
Non-performance or improper performance of obligations in consequence of unconscientious or negligent attitude to the service, by person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, if it is entailed the death of person or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Chapter 10. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINST PUBLIC SECURITY
AND PUBLIC ORDER

Section 588. Original section/article: 255. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
An act of terrorism
1. An act of terrorism, in other words commission of explosion, arson and other actions, endanger the lives of people, infliction of significant property damage or occurrence of other socially dangerous consequences, if these actions are committed in order to violation of public security, terrorizing the population, influence to making decisions by the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the foreign state or international organization, provocation of war or complications of international relations, as well as the threat of commission of specified actions in the same purposes – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of six to ten years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) with the use of weapon or items, used as a weapon, explosive substances or explosive devices, which may create real threat to the life and health of citizens, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they:
1) linked with the use or threat of using weapons of mass destruction, radioactive materials and commission or threat of mass poisoning, spread of epidemics or epizootics, as well as other actions that can lead to mass fatality; 
2) entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to seventeen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
4. Infringement on life of person, committed in order to violation of public security, terrorizing the population, influence to making decisions by the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the foreign state or international organization, provocation of war or complications of international relations, as well as infringement on life of the state or public figure, committed for the same purposes, as well as in order of termination of his (her) state or other political activity or out of revenge for such activity, or infringement on life of person, linked with attack against the persons or organization, using international protection, building, construction, taking of hostage, buildings, constructions, means of communication and communication, theft, as well as seizure of aircraft or water vessel, railway vehicles or other public transport – 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan with confiscation of property.
Note. A person, participating in the preparation of an act of terrorism shall be released from criminal responsibility, if he (she) is assisted in prevention of an act of terrorism by early warning of the state bodies or other means and if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. 
Footnote.

Section 589. Original section/article: 255. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 28.12. 2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 590. Original section/article: 256. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Propaganda of terrorism or public calls for commission of an act of terrorism
1. Propaganda of terrorism or public calls for commission of an act of terrorism, as well as production, storage in order to distribution or distribution of materials of specified content – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to nine years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions committed by a person using his or her official position or by the leader of a public association, or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, or by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, including with the use of funds received from foreign sources, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 591. Original section/article: 256. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 592. Original section/article: 257. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation, management of terrorist group and participation in its activity
1. Creation of terrorist group, as well as its management – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to seventeen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
2. Participation in activity of terrorist group or acts of terrorism, committed by it – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or by leader of public association, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of twelve to fifteen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 593. Original section/article: 257. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 594. Original section/article: 258. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Financing of terrorist or extremist activity and other aiding and abetting to the terrorism or extremism
1. Provision or collection of money and (or) other property, right to property or benefits of a property nature, as well as donation, exchange, dotations, charitable assistance, rendering of information and other services or rendering of financial services to an individual or a group of persons or a legal entity committed by a person who was aware of the terroristic or extremist nature of their activity or that the provided property, rendered information, financial and other services will be used for carrying out terroristic or extremist activity or supporting a terroristic or extremist group, terroristic or extremist organization, illegal paramilitary forces, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to nine years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or by person with the use of his (her) official position or by person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, or by leader of public association, or by group of persons on previous concert, or on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Note. A person, carrying out financing of terrorist and other aiding to terrorism or extremist activity under the threat of force and voluntary declared on this, as well as actively contributed to the detection or suppression of crime shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. 
Footnote.

Section 595. Original section/article: 258. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 403-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 596. Original section/article: 259. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Enlistment or preparation or armament of persons in order of organization of terrorist or extremist activity
1. Enlistment or preparation or armament of persons in order of organization of terrorist or extremist activity – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
2. The same action, committed by person with the use of his official position or in relation of the minor, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 597. Original section/article: 259. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 598. Original section/article: 260. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Undergoing the terrorist or extremist training
Undergoing the training by person, as well as outside of the Republic of Kazakhstan, certainly for leaner, directed to acquisition of skills and experience of commission of terrorist or extremist crime, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with or without property confiscation.
Note. A person, committed a crime, provided by this Article shall be released from criminal responsibility, if he (she) voluntary informed on undergoing the training, contributed to the identification of other persons, undergone such training, carrying out, organized or financed such training, provided information on place of its venue and if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 599. Original section/article: 260. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 600. Original section/article: 261. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Taking of hostage
1. Taking or keeping of person as a hostage, committed in order of coercion of the state, organization or other person to commit any action or refrain from any action as a condition for release of the hostage – 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of person on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with the use of force, danger for life or health;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons;
5) in relation of certainly the minor;
6) in relation of woman, certainly for the guilty person, being in the state of pregnancy;
7) in relation of person, certainly being in the helpless state;
8) in relation of two or more persons;
9) for selfish motives or by hire, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with or without confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group or entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years, with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with or without property confiscation.
Note. A person, voluntary or at the request of authorities, released the hostage shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 601. Original section/article: 261. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 602. Original section/article: 262. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation and management of organized group, criminal organization, as well as participation in them
1. Creation of organized group or criminal organization, as well as its management or structural subdivision of criminal organization – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation in the organized group or criminal organization – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to thirteen years with confiscation of property.
Note. A person, voluntary terminated participation in the criminal group and actively contributed to detection or suppression of crimes, committed or committed by criminal group shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime, in the Articles 262, 263, 264, 265 and 268 of this Code.

Section 603. Original section/article: 263. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation and management of criminal society, as well as participation in it
1. Creation or management of criminal society, as well as creation of association of heads or other participants of organized groups (criminal organizations) or coordination of criminal actions of independently acting organized groups (criminal organizations) in order to commission of one or several crimes – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation of the heads of organized groups, criminal organizations, structural subdivisions of criminal organizations in the criminal society – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. Participation in the meeting of heads, other participants of organized groups, criminal organizations in order of coordination of criminal actions, as well as with the use of means of communication, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to twenty years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to twenty years with confiscation of property.
5. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by person, holding a leading position among the heads of organized groups (criminal organizations), - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment, with confiscation of property.

Section 604. Original section/article: 264. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation and management of transnational organized group, transnational criminal organization, as well as participation in them
1. Creation of transnational organized group or transnational criminal organization, as well as its management or management of structural subdivision of transnational criminal organization – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation in the transnational organized group or transnational criminal organization – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to twenty years with confiscation of property.

Section 605. Original section/article: 265. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation and management of transnational criminal society, as well as participation in it
1. Creation of transnational criminal society, as well as management them – shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation in the transnational criminal society – shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seventy to twenty years with confiscation of property.

Section 606. Original section/article: 266. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Financing activity of criminal group, as well as storage, division of property, development financing channels
1. Provision or collection of money and (or) other property, right to property or benefits of a property nature, as well as donation, exchange, dotations, charitable assistance, rendering of information and other services or rendering of financial services to an individual or a group of persons or a legal entity committed by a person who was aware of their use for supporting an organized group, criminal organization, criminal community, transnational organized group, transnational criminal organization, transnational criminal community or gang, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with confiscation of property.
2. Storage, division of property, as well as development financing channels, committed by participant of criminal group,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position or by person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organization, or by leader of public association, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of seven to ten years.
Note. A person, carrying out financing of activity of criminal group under the threat of force and voluntary declared about it shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 607. Original section/article: 266. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.11.2015 № 403-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 608. Original section/article: 267. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization of illegal paramilitary forces
1. Creation of illegal paramilitary forces, as well as management of such formation - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to two to seven years.
2. Participation in an illegal paramilitary forces – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Note. A person, voluntary terminated participation in an illegal para-military forces and laid down arms and military equipment shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. 
Footnote.

Section 609. Original section/article: 267. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 610. Original section/article: 268. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Banditry 
1. Creation of stable armed group (gang), as well as management of such group (gang) – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of twelve to twenty years with confiscation of property.
2. Participation in the stable armed group (gang) or attacks, committed by it – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years with confiscation of property.

Section 611. Original section/article: 269. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
An attack against building, construction, means of communication and communication or their capture
1. An attack against building, construction (as well as stationary platforms, located on the continental shelf of the Republic of Kazakhstan), means of communication and communication, other communications, as well as their capture – 
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without property confiscation.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly; 
3) with the use of force, danger for life or health;
4) with the use of weapon or items, used as weapon;
5) for selfish motives or by hire;
6) in relation of buildings of the state bodies or the state institutions, -
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group or entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to fifteen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 612. Original section/article: 269. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 613. Original section/article: 269-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal entry into a protected facility 
1. Illegal entry into a facility protected in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan by law enforcement or special state bodies, bodies and divisions of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Armed Forces, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as into a hazardous production facility guarded by a private security organization which has caused significant damage or significant harm to the rights or legally protected interests of citizens or organizations, or to the legally protected interests of society or the state, 
- shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to 200 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to 50 days. 
2. The same act committed: 
1) causing major damage; 
2) with the use of violence or with the threat of its use; 
3) with the use of weapons or items used as weapons, explosives or explosive devices; 
4) by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, 
– shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term. 
3. The acts provided for by parts one and two of this article: 
1) entailed by negligence the death of a person or other grave consequences; 
2) committed by a criminal group, 
– shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to ten years. 
Footnote. Chapter 10 is supplemented by

Section 614. Original section/article: 269-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 615. Original section/article: 270. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft, as well as seizure of aircraft or water vessel, railway vehicles
1. Theft of aircraft or water vessel or railway vehicles, as well as capture of such vessel or composition in order to theft – 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of two to eight years, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) with the use of force, danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force;
4) with use of weapons or objects used as weapons, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group or entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of eight to fifteen years with confiscation of property, deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan or without it.
Footnote.

Section 616. Original section/article: 270. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 617. Original section/article: 271. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Piracy
1. Attack against sea or river vessel in order of acquisition of another’s property, committed with the use of force or the threat of its use, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or with the use of weapon or objects, used as weapon, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group or entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.

Section 618. Original section/article: 272. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mass disorders
1. Organization of mass riots, accompanied by violence, demolitions, arsons, destructions, destruction of property, use of fire-arms, explosives or explosive devices, as well as offering armed resistance to the representative of the authority, including the use of funds obtained from foreign sources, – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to ten years.
2. Participation in the mass disorders, provided by first part of this Article, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
3. Calls for active insubordination to the legal requirements of representatives of authority and mass disorder or provocation of mass disorders, as well as calls for violence against citizens – 
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of three to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
4. the acts provided for in part three of this article, committed using mass media or telecommunications networks, information technology facilities, including the Internet, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 619. Original section/article: 272. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.07.2016 № 12-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 620. Original section/article: 273. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Knowingly false report about an act of terrorism
Knowingly false report on prepared act of terrorism – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 621. Original section/article: 273. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 622. Original section/article: 274. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Dissemination of knowingly false information 
1. Dissemination of knowingly false information, creating a danger of violation of public order or infliction of substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organization or the interests of society or the state, protected by the Law, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
3) through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed infliction of heavy damage to the citizen, organization or the state or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) in the conditions of emergency situation or in the face of the enemy, or in time of war, or upon implementation of public measures, -
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 623. Original section/article: 274. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 10.07.2023 № 19-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 624. Original section/article: 275. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal export and import of technologies, scientific and technical information and services used in creation of weapons of mass destruction, weapons and military equipment
Footnote. The heading of

Section 625. Original section/article: 283. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
Illegal export and import of technologies, scientific and technical information and services that can be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction, means of their delivery, weapons and military equipment and in respect of which control of specific goods has been established, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with confiscation of property or without it.
Footnote.

Section 626. Original section/article: 275. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 627. Original section/article: 276. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of safety on the objects of the atomic energy uses
1. Violation of rules of safety upon placement, designing, construction, put into operation, operation, repair, putting out of service of objects of atomic energy uses, as well as handling with nuclear materials, radioactive substance, radioactive wastes or sources of ionizing radiation, if this action is entailed infliction of harm of average gravity to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The same action, entailed the death of person or nuclear contaminated environment or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 628. Original section/article: 276. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 629. Original section/article: 277. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of safety upon conducting of mining or construction works
1. Violation of rules of safety of conducting mining or construction works, if it is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 630. Original section/article: 277. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 631. Original section/article: 278. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Poor-quality construction
1. Completion and (or) acceptance into operation of poor-quality constructed, uncompleted or not conforming to the conditions of agreement and project documentation of buildings and constructions, automobile roads, tunnels, electric stations, dwelling houses or other objects of construction, as well as their low-quality repair by the heads of construction organizations, clerks of the works and civil servants, carrying out control over the quality of construction, if it is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 632. Original section/article: 278. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 633. Original section/article: 279. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules and requirements of standards in the scope of architectural, town-planning and construction activity
1. Violation of rules and requirements of standards in the scope of architectural, town-planning and construction activity, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.

Section 634. Original section/article: 280. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Improper performance of expert works or engineering services
1. Improper performance of expert works or engineering services, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.

Section 635. Original section/article: 281. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of safety on the explosive objects
1. Violation of rules of safety on the explosive object or explosive units, if it is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 636. Original section/article: 281. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 637. Original section/article: 282. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of safety upon carrying out of space activity
1. Violation of rules of safety upon carrying out of space activity, if it is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 638. Original section/article: 282. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 639. Original section/article: 283. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal handling of radioactive substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials, as well as pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 640. Original section/article: 283. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).
1. Illegal acquisition, storage, transportation, use, transfer, proceeding, destruction, spraying or disposal of radioactive substances, radioactive wastes, nuclear materials – 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
2. Illegal sale of radioactive substances, radioactive wastes, nuclear materials, as well as illegal acquisition, storage, transportation of radioactive substances, radioactive wastes, nuclear materials in order to sale – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to six years with confiscation of property or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence. – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years with confiscation of property or without it. 
4. Handling of pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases without an appropriate permit -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of two to six years, with or without confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 641. Original section/article: 283. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 642. Original section/article: 284. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft or extortion of radioactive substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials, and also pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 643. Original section/article: 284. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.21.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).
1. Theft or extortion of radioactive substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials, and also pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
4) with use of force, not danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to seven years with confiscation of property or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) with use of force, danger for life or health, or the threat of use of such force;
2) by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 644. Original section/article: 284. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 645. Original section/article: 285. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the rules of handling radioactive substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials or the requirements for handling pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases 
Footnote.

Section 646. Original section/article: 285. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation of rules of storage, use, record, burial, transportation of radioactive substances, radioactive wastes and nuclear materials and other handling rules with them, if it could entail the death of person or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to one year, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. Violation of the requirements for handling pathogenic biological agents that cause especially dangerous infectious diseases, which entailed inadvertently the death of a person or other grave consequences, -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term up to seven years, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 647. Original section/article: 285. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.05.2022 № 123-VII (shall be enforced six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 648. Original section/article: 286. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Smuggling of withdrawn from handling of items or items, handling of which is restricted
1. Movement across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union in addition to or with concealment from customs control or with fraudulent use of documents or means of customs identification, or associated with non-declaration or false declaration, or with indication of knowingly false information in the statement on the release of goods before filing a declaration for goods, including submission of invalid documents, forged and (or) containing deliberately unreliable (false) information, as well as illegal trafficking across the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, precursors, highly toxic, virulent, poisonous, , radioactive substances, radioactive waste or nuclear materials, explosives, weapons, military equipment, explosive devices, firearms, gas pistols and revolvers, gas weapons with the possibility of firing traumatic cartridges, pneumatic weapons with a muzzle energy of more than 7.5 J, inert, signal and throwing weapons, their main (component) parts, ammunition, nuclear, chemical, biological or other types of weapons of mass destruction, materials, equipment or components that can be used to create weapons of mass destruction, as well as materials and equipment that can be used to create means of delivery of weapons of mass destruction, weapons and military equipment, in respect of which control of specific goods has been established, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by civil servant with the use of his (her) official position;
3) with the use of force to the person, carrying out the border or customs control;
4) by group of persons on previous concert;
5) in relation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, precursors on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, linked with narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, committed in a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment, with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 649. Original section/article: 286. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 26.12.2017 № 124-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2018); dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 650. Original section/article: 287. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, storage, transportation or bearing of weapons, ammunition, explosive substance and explosive devices
1. Illegal bearing or sale of cold weapon, except when bearing of cold weapon is linked with hunting, as well as sale of weapon and ammunition to it by employees of trade organizations to the individuals, organizations, not having relevant permission, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one hundred and eighty hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with or without confiscation of property.
2. Illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, storage, transportation or bearing of tubeless fire weapons, gas spray gun with possibility of firing by cartridges of traumatic action, stub barreled smooth-bore weapon, as well as cartridges to them –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
3. Illegal acquisition, transfer, sale, storage, transportation or bearing of fire weapon (except for smoothbore hunting weapon), ammunition, explosive substance or explosive devices – 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restraint of liberty for a term up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by third part of this Article, committed by group of persons on previous concert or repeatedly, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years, with or without confiscation of property.
5. The actions, provided by third or fourth parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with or without confiscation of property.
Note. A person, voluntary surrendered the items, specified in this Article shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime. Surrender of items, specified in this Article, in the case of their withdrawal upon detention of a person, as well as upon execution of investigatory actions on their detection and withdrawal shall not be recognized as voluntary.
Footnote.

Section 651. Original section/article: 287. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 652. Original section/article: 288. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal production of weapons
1. Illegal manufacture or repair of firearms, their main (component) parts, as well as illegal manufacture of ammunition, explosives or explosive devices, -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed by group of persons on previous concert or repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
4. Illegal production of gas spray gun, cold weapon, as well as missile weapon, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to two hundred and forty hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Note. A person, voluntary surrendered the items, specified in this Article shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 653. Original section/article: 288. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 654. Original section/article: 289. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Negligent keeping of fire weapons
Negligent keeping of fire weapons, created conditions for its use by other person, if it is entailed the death of person or other grave consequences, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 655. Original section/article: 289. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 656. Original section/article: 290. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Improper execution of obligations on security of weapons, ammunition, explosive substances or explosive devices
1. Improper execution of their obligations by person, to whom the security or weapons, ammunition, explosive substances or explosive devices is instructed, if it is entailed their theft or destruction or occurrence of other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. Improper fulfillment of obligations for the protection of weapons of mass destruction or materials or equipment that can be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction, if this entailed grave consequences or created a threat of their occurrence, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 657. Original section/article: 290. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 658. Original section/article: 291. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft or extortion of weapons, ammunition, explosive substances and explosive devices
1. Theft or extortion of firearms, their main (component) parts, ammunition, explosives or explosive devices, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
2. Theft or extortion of weapons of mass destruction, as well as materials or equipment that can be used in the creation of mass destruction weapons, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
2) repeatedly;
3) with the use of force, not danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force;
4) by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to twelve years with confiscation of property or without it.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) with the use of force, danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to fifteen years with confiscation of property or without it.
Footnote.

Section 659. Original section/article: 291. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication);dated 28.12.2022 № 173-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 660. Original section/article: 292. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of requirements of fire safety
1. Violation of requirements of fire safety by person, responsible for their observance, if it is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to human health or heavy damage to the citizen, organization of the state by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it. 
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of two to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 661. Original section/article: 292. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 662. Original section/article: 293. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Hooliganism
1. Hooliganism, in other words particularly insolent violation of public order, expressing a clear disrespect for society, accompanied by use of force to the citizens or the threat of its use, as well as destruction of damaging of another’s property, or commission of indecent acts, characterizing by exceptional cynicism,- 
shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of three hundred to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, if it:
1) committed by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert;
2) related with resistance to representative of authority or other person, exercising obligations on security of public order or suppressing violation of public order;
3) committed repeatedly;
4) committed on board an aircraft, river, sea vessel, railway transport, - 
shall be punishable by a fine of three to seven thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. Acts stipulated by parts one or two of this article, committed with the use or attempted use of firearms, gas weapons, knives, brass knuckles and other bladed weapons or other objects specially adapted to cause harm to health, as well as committed by a criminal group, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to seven years.
4. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 663. Original section/article: 293. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 17.03.2023 № 212-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 664. Original section/article: 294. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Vandalism 
1. Vandalism, i.e. desecration of historical and cultural heritage sites, historical and cultural monuments, natural sites protected by the state, with inscriptions or drawings, or other actions that offend public morality, -
shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for up to fifty days.
2. The same act committed:
1) on motives of social, national, racial or religious enmity;
2) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior conspiracy;
3) on mercenary motives;
4) repeatedly – 
shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of three hundred to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 665. Original section/article: 294. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 666. Original section/article: 295. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal performance of archeological works
1. Illegal archaeological work –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of person on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
4) with the use of special technical search facilities (metal detector, radars, magnetic devices, other technical means, allowing to determine existence of archeological items in the final resting place) or excavating machines, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 667. Original section/article: 295. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 289-VІ as of 26.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 668. Original section/article: 295-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illicit trafficking in precious metals and precious stones, commodities containing precious metals 
1. Illegal mining, acquisition, sale, storage, transportation, transfer of precious metals or precious stones, raw materials containing precious metals, – 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by engagement in public works for a term of up to 200 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to 50 days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without it. 
2. The same acts committed on a large scale or causing large damage, 
- shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without it. 
3. The acts provided for by parts 1 or 2 of this article, committed by a criminal group or on an especially large scale or causing especially large damage, 
- shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to seven years, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions and engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years. 
Footnote. Chapter 10 is supplemented by

Section 669. Original section/article: 295-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
Chapter 11. CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS AGAINST THE HEALTH OF
POPULATION AND MORALITY

Section 670. Original section/article: 296. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal handling of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues with no intent to sell 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 671. Original section/article: 296. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
1. Non-medical consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues in public places -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. Illegal manufacture, processing, purchase, storage, transportation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues with no intent to sell –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
3. Illegal production, processing, acquisition, storage, transportation with no intent of sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a large scale – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
4. Illegal production, processing, acquisition, storage, transportation with no intent of sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a special large scale –shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
Note. 
1. The quantity of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances is determined as small, large and especially large according to the Consolidated Table on the classification of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors found in illicit trafficking, which is approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The small, large and especially large quantities of analogues of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances correspond to the small, large and especially large quantities of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, of which they are analogues.
2. A person, voluntary surrendered narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, precursors, acquired by him (her) for personal consumption, or voluntary applied to the medical settings for rendering of medical assistance in relation of consumption of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues in non-medical purposes, or actively contributed to detection and suppression of crimes related with illegal trafficking of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, precursors, exposure of persons, committed them, discovery of property, obtained by criminal way shall be released from criminal responsibility on this Article.
Footnote.

Section 672. Original section/article: 296. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 205-VI as of 27.12.2018 (shall be enforced six months after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 673. Original section/article: 297. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal acquisition, storage, transportation in order to sale, transfer or sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues
Footnote The title is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
1. Illegal acquisition, storage, transportation in order to sale, transfer or sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to eight years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed in relation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The deeds provided for by the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) in relation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a special large scale;
4) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
5) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); 
6) in a public place –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by a criminal group, or by an official using his official position, as well as sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues in the educational organizations or to a person known to be a minor - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 674. Original section/article: 297. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 675. Original section/article: 297-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal production, processing, manufacturing in order to sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues
1. Illegal production, processing, manufacturing in order to sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
2. The same acts involving narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, or their analogues committed on a large scale, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to twelve years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions provided for by first or second partis of this Article, committed by:
1) a group of persons by prior agreement;
2) repeatedly;
3) involving narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, or their analogues on an especially large scale, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by a criminal group, or by an official using his official position, as well as illegal production of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues –
Shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment with confiscation of property.
Footnote. The Code is as amended with Article дополнен статьей 297-1 in accordance with the Law dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 676. Original section/article: 298. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Theft or extortion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues
1. Theft or extortion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues – 
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to seven years, with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
4) with the use of force, not danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to ten years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) in relation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a large scale;
3) with the use of force, danger to life or health, or with the threat of use of such force, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed in relation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues on a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment, with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 677. Original section/article: 298. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 678. Original section/article: 299. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Habitual use of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues
1. Habitual use of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) through the use of electronic information resources –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) in relation of certainly minor or two or more persons;
2) with the use of force or the threat of its use;
3) by criminal group, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to ten years.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are entailed the death of injured person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 679. Original section/article: 299. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 680. Original section/article: 299-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Propaganda or illegal advertising of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues, precursors 
1. Propaganda or illegal advertising of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their analogues, precursors -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to three years with or without confiscation of property.
2. The same acts committed:
1) by a group of persons by previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) in educational institutions, as well as in mass gathering facilities;
4) through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms;
5) using official position – 
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to six years with or without confiscation of property.
Footnote. Chapter 11 is supplemented with

Section 681. Original section/article: 299-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); as amended by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 682. Original section/article: 300. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal cultivation of plants, containing narcotic substances, prohibited to cultivation
1. Planting or cultivation of plants, prohibited to cultivation or cultivation of varieties of hemp, poppy and other plants, containing narcotic substances, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
3. The action, provided for by firs part of this Article committed by: 
1) a criminal group; 
2) on an especially large scale, –
Shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with or without confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 683. Original section/article: 300. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication). 
Note!

Section 684. Original section/article: 301. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is stipulated to be amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII ( shall be enforced from 01.01.2026).

Section 685. Original section/article: 301. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal trafficking in poisonous substances, and also substances, tools and equipment used to manufacture or process narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or poisonous substances 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 686. Original section/article: 301. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
1. Illegal manufacture, processing, purchase, storage, transportation, shipping with intent to sell, as well as illegal sale of poisonous substances that are not narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues, or tools or equipment for their manufacture or processing -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years, with or without confiscation of property.
2. Illegal manufacture, purchase, storage, transportation, shipping with intent to sell, as well as illegal sale of substances, their analogues, tools or equipment used to manufacture or process narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances -–
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to seven years, with or without confiscation of property.
3. The acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, which are committed:
1) by a person using his/her official position;
2) by a group of persons by previous concert;
3) repeatedly;
4) through the use of electronic information resources -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to ten years, with or without confiscation of property.
4. The acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, committed by a criminal group -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years, with or without confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 687. Original section/article: 301. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 01.07.2022 № 131-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 688. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Trafficking in smokeless tobacco products, electronic consumption systems (vapes), flavorings and liquids for them 
1. Sale and distribution of smokeless tobacco products, electronic consumption systems (vapes), flavorings and liquids for them, or their storage, shipment, transportation for the purpose of sale or distribution in significant quantities –
shall be punished by a fine in an amount up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or community services for a term up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term up to fifty days.
2. Import, manufacture of smokeless tobacco products, electronic consumption systems (vapes), flavorings and liquids for them – 
shall be punished by a fine in an amount up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or community services for a term up to six hundred hours, or restriction of freedom for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same period, with or without confiscation of property.
3. Acts, provided for in parts one or two of this article, if they:
1) have been committed by a criminal group;
2) are associated with the extraction of income on a particularly large scale;
3) have been committed repeatedly, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of freedom for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
Footnote. Chapter 11 is supplemented with

Section 689. Original section/article: 301-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 690. Original section/article: 302. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization or keeping disorderly houses for consumption of narcotic substances, psychotropic substances, their analogues and provision of premises for the same purposes
1. Organization or keeping disorderly houses for consumption of narcotic substances, psychotropic substances, their analogues, as well as provision of premises for the same purposes – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
2) repeatedly;
3) by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with confiscation of property.
Note!

Section 691. Original section/article: 303. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is stipulated to be amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2025 № 150-VIII ( shall be enforced from 01.01.2026).

Section 692. Original section/article: 303. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of handling with narcotic drugs, psychotropic or poisonous substances
1. Violation of rules of production, making, processing, acquisition, storage, record, sale, transportation, import, export, transmission or destruction of narcotic drugs, psychotropic or poisonous substances, if this action is committed by person, observance of specified rules of which is included in the obligations, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the theft of narcotic drugs, psychotropic or poisonous substances or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years. 
Footnote.

Section 693. Original section/article: 303. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 694. Original section/article: 304. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of sanitary rules or hygienic regulations
1. Violation of sanitary rules or hygienic regulations, entailed the mass diseases, infection, irradiation or poisoning people, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 695. Original section/article: 304. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 696. Original section/article: 305. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Information hiding on consequences, creating a danger for life or health of people
1. Hiding or misrepresentation of information on events, facts or occurrences, creating a danger for life or health of people or environment, committed by person, who is obliged to provide the population with such information, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of harm to health of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 697. Original section/article: 305. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 698. Original section/article: 306. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Release or sale of goods, execution of works or rendering of services, not meeting the requirements of safety
1. Release or sale of goods, execution of works or rendering of services, not meeting the requirements of safety of life or health of consumers, as well as illegal issuance or use of official document, certifying compliance of specified goods, works or services with the requirements of safety, if these actions are entailed infliction of harm to health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, if they:
1) committed in relation of goods, works or services, intended for the minors;
2) entailed infliction of harm to health of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to eight years.
Footnote.

Section 699. Original section/article: 306. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 700. Original section/article: 307. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization of illegal gambling business
1. Illegal opening or maintenance of a gambling establishment or illegal organization of activities in the gambling business, as well as provision of premises for illegal gambling business or organization and conduct of gambling outside the places established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gambling business, organization of activities of electronic casinos and Internet casinos or pursuing activities in the gambling business without a license -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) with the use of the minor or his (her) participation in the gamble games;
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) with deriving income on a large scale;
4) by person with the use of his (her) official position;
5) repeatedly, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by criminal group;
2) with deriving income on a large scale;
3) by person, authorized to performance of the state functions, or by person equated to him (her), or by person, holding responsible state position, personally or by authorized person, contrary to the prohibition, established by the Law, if these actions are linked with provision of benefits and advantages to such activity or with protection in other form, - 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of four to seven years with confiscation of property, and in the cases provided for by paragraph 2), deprivation of liberty for the same term or a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the amount of income received, with confiscation of property, by paragraph 3), with life deprivation of liberty of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
Footnote.

Section 701. Original section/article: 307. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 08.07.2024 № 116-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 702. Original section/article: 308. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement in prostitution, provision of other sexual services 
Footnote. The Heading of

Section 703. Original section/article: 308. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Involvement in prostitution, provision of other services of a sexual nature through the use or threat of violence, use of a dependent position, blackmail, destruction or damage of property or through deception, as well as through propaganda and (or) advertising of prostitution, other services of a sexual nature for these purposes -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The same action, committed by group of persons on previous concert or repeatedly,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to six years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to seven years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 704. Original section/article: 308. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 705. Original section/article: 309. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization or maintenance of brothels for prostitution, provision of other services of a sexual nature and pimpship 
Footnote.

Section 706. Original section/article: 309. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Organization or maintenance of brothels for prostitution, provision of other services of a sexual nature, as well as pimpship for mercenary purposes -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five years with confiscation of property.
2. The same acts committed:
1) by a group of persons by prior conspiracy;
2) repeatedly;
3) through the use of telecommunications networks, objects of informatization, including the Internet;
4) by propaganda and (or) advertising of prostitution, other services of a sexual nature for these purposes;
5) with the involvement of a minor in prostitution, provision of other services of a sexual nature, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years with confiscation of property.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 707. Original section/article: 309. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 111-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 708. Original section/article: 310. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization or keeping disorderly houses for stupefying with the use of medicinal or other products
1. Organization or keeping disorderly houses for stupefying with the use of medicinal or other products and substances, not referring to the narcotic drugs, psychotropic substance, their analogues, as well as provision of premises for these purposes – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. The same actions, committed by criminal group, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 709. Original section/article: 310. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 710. Original section/article: 311. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal distribution of pornographic materials or items
Illegal production for the purposes of distribution or advertisement, distribution, advertisement of pornographic materials or items, as well as illegal movement or trade of printed publications, film or video materials, images or other items of pornographic nature – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it.
Footnote.

Section 711. Original section/article: 311. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 712. Original section/article: 312. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Production and turnover of materials or items with pornographic images of the minors or their involvement for participation in the entertainment events of pornographic nature
1. Production, storage or transfer across the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the purposes of distribution, public demonstration or advertisement or distribution, public demonstration or advertisement of materials or items with pornographic images of the minors – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to six years with confiscation of property.
2. Involving minors as models or actors in the production of pornographic materials and (or) items, and also as performers in spectacular pornographic events by a person who has reached the age of eighteen -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with confiscation of property, with life-long deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, committed:
1) by a parent, teacher or another person entrusted with the obligation to educate a minor by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) against a person known to be a minor;
3) by a group of persons by previous concert or by a criminal group;
4) repeatedly –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property, with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 713. Original section/article: 312. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law№ 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 30.12.2020 № 393-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 714. Original section/article: 313. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal distribution of works, propagandizing cruelty and violence
Illegal production in order to distribution or advertisement, distribution, advertisement, demonstration of film or video materials and other works, propagandizing cruelty and violence, as well as illegal trade of print publications, film or video materials, propagandizing cruelty and violence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 715. Original section/article: 313. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 716. Original section/article: 313-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Propaganda of suicide 
1. Propaganda of suicide, i.e. deliberate dissemination of information in any form with the aim of inciting an unlimited number of persons to commit suicide, in the absence of signs of criminal infractions provided for by

Section 717. Original section/article: 105. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, –
shall be punished by the penalty in the amount of two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount.
2. An act provided for in paragraph one of this article which has resulted in an attempted suicide of one or more persons, –
shall be punished by restriction of freedom for one year or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The act provided by part one of the present article, which has entailed suicide of a person, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to five years.
Footnote. Chapter 11 is supplemented with

Section 718. Original section/article: 313-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 719. Original section/article: 314. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Desecration of the dead persons and places of their burial places
1. Desecration of the dead persons or destruction, damaging or desecration of burial places, gravestone constructions or cemetery buildings, intended for the ceremonies in connection with the burial or commemoration, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert or criminal group;
3) on grounds of national, racial or religious hatred or enmity;
4) with the use of force or the threat of its use, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 720. Original section/article: 314. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 721. Original section/article: 315. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal removal of organs or body tissues of dead body
1. Illegal removal of organs or body tissues of dead body for transplantation or other use, as well as settlement of transactions in relation of organs or tissues of dead body – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert or criminal group;
2) repeatedly;
3) by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.

Section 722. Original section/article: 316. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Cruel treatment of an animal 
1. Cruel treatment of an animal resulting in its mutilation, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same size, or by community service for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or by arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
2. Cruel treatment of an animal that caused its death, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to 200 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to 50 days, with deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to one year or without it.
3. The deeds referred to in the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) in relation to two or more animals;
2) by a group of persons, a group of persons in prior collusion;
3) repeatedly;
4) in the presence of minors;
5) publicly or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to four hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to one year, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of up to two years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 723. Original section/article: 316. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.12. 2021 № 98-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 12. MEDICAL CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS

Section 724. Original section/article: 317. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Improper performance of professional obligations by medical or pharmaceutical worker 
1. Non-performance, improper performance of professional duties by a medical or pharmaceutical worker due to negligent or unconscientious attitude to them, if these acts entailed infliction of harm of average gravity to human health by negligence, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or attraction to community services for the term up to one hundred hours, or arrest for the term up to thirty days.
2. Acts provided for in part one of this article, which have caused by negligence the infliction of grievous harm to health, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of freedom for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to one year.
3. Acts provided for in part one of this article, which have caused the death of a person by negligence, –
shall be punished by restriction of freedom for the term up to four years or imprisonment for the same term with deprivation of the right to hold the certain positions or to engage in the certain activities for the term up to three years.
4. Acts provided for in part one of this article, which have caused the death of two or more persons by negligence, –
shall be punished by restriction of freedom for the term up to six years or imprisonment for the same term with deprivation of the right to hold the certain positions or to engage in the certain activities for the term up to three years.
5. Improper performance of professional duties by a medical worker, as well as an employee of a domestic or other public service organization due to negligent or dishonest attitude towards them, if this act resulted in the infection of another person with HIV, –
shall be punished by restriction of freedom for the term up to five years or imprisonment for the same term with deprivation of the right to hold the certain positions or to engage in the certain activities for the term up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 725. Original section/article: 317. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.04.2024 № 74-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 726. Original section/article: 318. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of procedure of conducting of the clinical researches and use of the new methods and means of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and medical rehabilitation
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
2. Violation of the procedure for conducting clinical trials and applying new methods and means of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and medical rehabilitation, committed by an official or resulting in serious consequences due to negligence, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 727. Original section/article: 318. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 728. Original section/article: 319. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal artificial termination of pregnancy 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 729. Original section/article: 319. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Performance of an artificial termination of pregnancy by a person who does not have a higher medical education of the relevant profile, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The action, provided by first part of this Article, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Illegal performance of artificial termination of pregnancy by a person who has a higher medical education of the relevant profile, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
4. The action, provided by third part of this Article, committed repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
5. Illegal performance of artificial termination of pregnancy, that by negligence resulted in the death of the victim or infliction of grave harm to her health, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 730. Original section/article: 319. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 731. Original section/article: 320. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure to provide medical assistance
Footnote. The heading of

Section 732. Original section/article: 320. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Failure to provide medical care to a patient without good reason by a person obliged to provide it in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and (or) the standards of the organization of medical care, and (or) the rules for the provision of medical care, if this negligently resulted in causing moderate harm to the health of the patient , –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or corrective labors for the same amount, or by community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it. 
2. The same action, if it is entailed the death of sick person or infliction of grievous harm to his (her) health by negligence, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 733. Original section/article: 320. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 734. Original section/article: 321. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of secret of a medical worker 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 735. Original section/article: 321. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
1. Disclosure of medical details on diseases or results of medical examination of patient, expressed in the report information about a person who has HIV / AIDS by medical employee without professional or needs of the service, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. Disclosure of medical details on diseases or results of medical examination of patient by medical employee without professional needs or needs of the service, if this action is entailed the grave consequences, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 736. Original section/article: 321. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 737. Original section/article: 322. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal medical and pharmaceutical activity and illegal issuance or forgery of prescriptions or other documents, granting the right to obtain the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances
1. Engagement in medical or pharmaceutical activity by person, not having a certificate and (or) license for this type of activity, if it is entailed infliction of average gravity harm to health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions and engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to human health by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
4. The action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
5. Illegal issuance or forgery of prescriptions or other documents, granting the right to obtain the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 738. Original section/article: 322. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 739. Original section/article: 323. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Handling with counterfeit medicines or medical products 
Footnote. The title of

Section 740. Original section/article: 323. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Production, manufacture, or storage for the purpose of sale, as well as the use or sale of counterfeit medicines or medical devices, if this has resulted in serious consequences due to negligence, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) repeatedly;
3) on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 741. Original section/article: 323. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.12.2018 № 211-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 13. ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMINAL INFRACTION

Section 742. Original section/article: 324. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of environmental requirements to the economic or other activity
1. Violation of environmental requirements in the use of natural resources, design, placement, construction or reconstruction, commissioning or operation of enterprises, structures or other facilities, operation of industrial, energy, transport or communications facilities, agricultural facilities and land reclamation, construction of cities or other settlements, military or defense facilities, military or space activities, if this act could have caused or caused, through negligence, harm to human health or major damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The act provided for in the first part of this article, which through negligence resulted in particularly large-scale damage or other grave consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 743. Original section/article: 324. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 744. Original section/article: 325. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of environmental requirements upon handling with environmentally potentially dangerous chemical or biological substances
1. Violation of environmental requirements in the production, transportation, storage, disposal, use, or other handling of environmentally hazardous chemical or biological substances, if such an act could have caused or did cause, through negligence, harm to human health or significant damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same act that has caused or created a threat of causing major damage, as well as committed in a territory with an environmental emergency, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article that have caused particularly large damage or other serious consequences through negligence, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 745. Original section/article: 325. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 746. Original section/article: 326. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of environmental requirements upon handling with microbiological or other biological agents or toxins
1. Violation of environmental requirements during the storage, destruction, or burial of microbiological or other biological agents or toxins, or their illegal import into the Republic of Kazakhstan for processing, storage, or burial, if this act could have caused or did cause, through negligence, harm to human health or significant damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same act that has caused or created a threat of causing major damage, as well as committed in a territory with an environmental emergency, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, which caused particularly large damage or other serious consequences through negligence, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 747. Original section/article: 326. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 748. Original section/article: 327. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of veterinary rules or rules, established for disease control and plant pests
1. Violation of veterinary rules, entailed spread of epizootic or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Violation of rules, established for disease control and plant pests, entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 749. Original section/article: 327. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 750. Original section/article: 328. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Pollution, clogging or depletion of waters 
1. Pollution, contamination, depletion of surface or underground waters, glaciers, drinking water sources, or other changes in their natural properties, if this could have caused or did cause, through negligence, harm to human health or significant damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days. 
2. The same acts that have caused or created a threat of causing major damage, also committed in specially protected natural areas or in areas with an environmental emergency, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
3. Acts provided for in parts one or two of this article, which have caused particularly large damage or other serious consequences through negligence, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 751. Original section/article: 328. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 752. Original section/article: 329. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Pollution of the atmosphere
1. Pollution of atmospheric air or other changes in its natural properties due to violation of environmental requirements, if this act resulted in negligence causing harm to human health or causing major damage – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same act, resulting in negligence causing particularly major damage or other serious consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 753. Original section/article: 329. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 754. Original section/article: 330. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Pollution of the marine environment
1. Pollution of the marine environment due to violation of environmental requirements, if this act resulted in negligence causing harm to human health or causing major damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same act, resulting in negligence causing particularly major damage or other serious consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 755. Original section/article: 330. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 756. Original section/article: 331. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the legislation on continental shelf of the Republic of Kazakhstan and exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Illegal erection of construction on the continental shelf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, creation the safety zone around them or in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as violation of rules of construction, operation, protection and liquidation of built structures and means to ensure the safety of maritime navigation –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to one year or without it.
2. Investigation, exploration, development of the natural resources of the continental shelf of the republic of Kazakhstan or exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan, conducted without relevant permission, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 757. Original section/article: 331. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 758. Original section/article: 332. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Spoilage of land
1. Contamination of land with industrial, domestic, or other emissions or waste, as well as poisoning, pollution, or other damage to land with harmful products of economic or other activities due to violation of the rules for handling pesticides, toxic chemicals, fertilizers, plant growth stimulants, or other hazardous chemical, radioactive or biological substances during their storage, use, transportation or disposal, if these acts could have caused or did cause, through negligence, harm to human health or major damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The acts referred to in part one of this article, which caused, through negligence:
1) infliction of particularly large damage or other grave consequences;
2) infliction of major damage in specially protected natural areas or in an ecological emergency zone or in an ecological disaster zone, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. The acts provided for in part one of this article, which caused, through negligence, particularly large damage or other serious consequences in specially protected natural areas, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to ten years, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 759. Original section/article: 332. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 760. Original section/article: 333. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of protection and use of subsoil
1. Violation of the rules for the protection and use of subsoil resources in the design and conduct of subsoil use operations, as well as general environmental requirements at all stages of subsoil use, if this act could have caused or caused, through negligence, harm to human health or major damage, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
2. The same act that caused particularly significant damage or other serious consequences through negligence, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 761. Original section/article: 333. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 762. Original section/article: 334. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unauthorized subsoil use 
1. Unauthorized subsoil use, as well as unauthorized extraction of minerals, if these acts have caused a significant damage, -
shall be punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without it.
2. The same acts:
1) causing major damage;
2) committed by a group of persons or a group of persons in collusion;
3) committed repeatedly, -
shall be punishable by a fine of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for up to one thousand hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property or without it, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
3. The deeds provided for by the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) in specially protected natural areas;
3) with infliction of particularly large damage, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with or without confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 763. Original section/article: 334. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 764. Original section/article: 335. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal extraction of fish resources, other aquatic animals or plants
1. Illegal extraction of fish resources, other aquatic animals or plants, if this action is committed:
1) with infliction of significant damage;
2) with the use of explosives or chemical substances, electro current or other methods of mass destruction of fishery resources and other aquatic animals and plants,- 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly,- 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years. 
3. The acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, which are committed:
1) against rare and endangered species of animals, and also animals, the use of which is banned, including sturgeon species;
2) in spawning grounds, breeding sites of other aquatic animals or on migration routes thereto;
3) by a person using his/her official position;
4) by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert;
5) using a self-propelled floating vehicle;
6) in specially protected natural areas and in areas with an emergency ecological situation -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to six thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to seven years.
4. The acts, provided for by parts one, two or three of this article, which are committed:
1) with causing large-scale damage;
2) by a criminal group;
3) by a person deprived of the right to engage in fishing, hunting other aquatic animals or gathering plants -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of six to ten years, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 765. Original section/article: 335. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 766. Original section/article: 336. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of protection of fishery resources
Violation of rules of protection of fishery resources upon construction of bridges, dams, performing blasting or other works, operation of water intake structures and pumping mechanisms, if this action entailed or may entail mass death of fish or other aquatic animals,- 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by engagement in public works for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or by arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to two years or without it. 
Footnote.

Section 767. Original section/article: 336. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 28.10.2019 № 268-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 292-VІ dated 27.12.2019 (see

Section 768. Original section/article: 2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for the order of entry into force).

Section 769. Original section/article: 337. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal hunting
1. Illegal hunting, also using firearms, pneumatic, throwing, cold weapons, other types of hunting tools, dogs, birds of prey, horseback riding, horse-drawn vehicles, if this act is committed with significant damage, as well as illegal hunting with explosive devices or other means of mass destruction of animals, aircraft, automobiles, motor vehicles, including oversnow equipment, or small craft -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
2. Illegal hunting, provided for by part one of this article, which is committed repeatedly -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of up to three years.
3. Illegal hunting, provided for by parts one or two of this article, which is committed by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
4. Illegal hunting, provided for by parts one, two or three of this article, which is committed:
1) in specially protected natural areas or in areas with emergency ecological situation;
2) against rare and endangered species of animals, and also animals, the use of which is banned; 
3) by a person using his/her official position;
4) with causing large damage –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to six thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to seven years.
5. Is excluded by Law № 268-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
6. Illegal hunting provided for by parts one, two, three or four of this article, which is committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) with causing especially large damage;
3) by a person deprived of the right to hunt according to a final and binding court judgment -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of from six to ten years, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 770. Original section/article: 337. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 771. Original section/article: 338. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of protection of animal life
Violation of rules of protection of animal life upon carrying out of industrial processes or transport vehicle operation, use of plant-protecting agents, mineral fertilizers or other preparations, entailed mass destruction or death of the animal life, as well as violation of procedure of the use or protection of hunting lands, fisheries waters, inflicted a heavy damage, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 772. Original section/article: 338. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 773. Original section/article: 339. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal handling with rare and endangered, as well prohibited to use the species of plants or animals
Footnote. The title of

Section 774. Original section/article: 339. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Illegal hunting, purchase, storage, sale, import, export, transfer, transportation or destruction of rare and endangered species of plants and animals including the species, the treatment of which is regulated by international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as plants or animals, the use of which, of their parts or derivatives is banned, as well as the destruction of their habitats–
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
1-1. Illegal hunting, destruction of a saiga, as well as the purchase, storage, sale, import, export, transfer, transportation of illegally killed saiga –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of three to five years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
2. The acts, provided for in parts one or 1-1 of this article, which are committed: 
1) repeatedly;
2) by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert;
3) in specially protected natural areas;
4) by a person using his/her official position;
5) with causing large-scale damage -
shall be punished with a fine worth three to seven thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
3. The acts, provided for by parts one, 1-1 or two of this article, which are committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) with causing especially large damage -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with the confiscation of property, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 775. Original section/article: 339. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in edition by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Laws № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 776. Original section/article: 339-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal handling with parts or derivatives of rare and endangered, as well as prohibited to use the species of plants or animals
1. Illegal acquisition, possession, sale, import, export, shipment, or transportation of parts or derivatives of rare and endangered species of plants or animals, including species whose use is regulated by international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as parts or derivatives of plants or animals whose use is prohibited, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor in the same amount, or community service for up to five hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
2. The illegal acquisition, storage, sale, import, export, shipment, or transportation of parts or derivatives of the saiga antelope, including its horns, –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for up to three years or imprisonment for the same term with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without such deprivation.
3. The acts specified in parts one or two of this article, committed:
1) repeatedly;
2) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement;
3) in specially protected natural areas;
4) by a person using their official position;
5) on a large scale, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of two thousand to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by restriction of liberty for a term of two to five years, or by imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years or without such deprivation.
4. The acts specified in parts one, two or three of this Article, committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) on an especially large scale, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years with confiscation of property, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
Footnote. Chapter 13 was supplemented with

Section 777. Original section/article: 339-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 778. Original section/article: 340. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal cutting, destruction or damaging of trees and shrubs
1. Illegal felling, destruction of or damage to trees and shrubs that are not part of the forest fund and are prohibited for felling, except for trees and shrubs of household plots, summer cottage and garden plots, as well as the destruction of or damage to forest crops, seedlings or young plants in nursery forests and plantations, as well as natural young growth, undergrowth, or self-seeding in areas designated for the reproduction of forests and afforestation, causing significant damage -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or by arrest for a term of up to forty days, with confiscation of property.
2. Illegal felling, destruction of or damage to trees and shrubs that are part of the forest fund, causing significant damage -
shall be fined in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without it.
3. The deeds provided for by the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons or a group of persons in collusion;
2) repeatedly;
3) by a person using his official position;
4) causing major damage;
5) in specially protected natural areas, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without it.
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years or without it.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of two to five years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 779. Original section/article: 340. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 780. Original section/article: 341. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Destruction or damaging of forests
1. Destruction or damaging of trees and shrubs both included as not included in the forest fund, except for the trees and shrubs in the household, cottage and garden plots, in the result of careless handling of fire or other source of increased danger, if this action is inflicted a heavy damage, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
2. Intentional destruction or damaging of trees and shrubs both included as not included in the forest fund, except for the trees and shrubs in the household, cottage and garden plots, committed by arson or other dangerous method or in the result of pollution by harmful substances, wastes, emissions and garbage, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to eight years with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 781. Original section/article: 341. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 782. Original section/article: 342. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the regime of protecting specially protected natural areas
Footnote. The heading of

Section 783. Original section/article: 342. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Violation of the regime of protecting specially protected natural areas, which caused significant damage, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without it, with property confiscation.
2. Intentional damaging or destruction of objects of the state natural-reserved fund on the specially protected natural sites, entailed infliction of significant damage, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years, with confiscation of property.
3. The acts referred to in part two of this article, if they have been committed:
1) by a group of persons or a group of persons in collusion;
2) by a person using his official position;
3) repeatedly;
4) with infliction of large damage, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years or without it.
4. Acts referred to in the first, second or third parts of this article, which caused especially large damage, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to seven years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to three years, or without it.
Footnote.

Section 784. Original section/article: 342. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 268-VI as of 28.10.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 03.01.2023 № 186-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 785. Original section/article: 343. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure to take measures to remediate (eliminate) environmental damage 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 786. Original section/article: 343. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).
1. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021).
2. Evasion from carrying out or improper carrying out of remediation (elimination) of environmental damage by persons who are entrusted with the obligation to carry out such measures, which created a threat of causing death to a person or caused serious or moderate harm to human health, or caused major damage, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years or without it.
3. Acts provided for by paragraph two of this article, which caused the death of a person or a mass disease of people, or the infliction of particularly large damage, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 787. Original section/article: 343. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.01.2021 № 401-VI (shall be enforced from 01.07.2021). 
Chapter 14. TRANSPORT CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS

Section 788. Original section/article: 344. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of safety rules or operation of railway, air, sea or river transport
1. Violation of safety rules or operation of railway, air, sea or river transport by person, by virtue of executed work or current position, who is obliged to observe these rules, if this action is entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to human health or infliction of heavy damage by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by firs part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 789. Original section/article: 344. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 790. Original section/article: 345. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of traffic rules or transport vehicles operation by persons, driving transport vehicles
1. Violation of traffic rules by person driving a car, trolley, tramway or other motor vehicle or transport vehicles operation, entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to two years. 
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 791. Original section/article: 345. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 792. Original section/article: 345-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of traffic rules or operation of vehicles by persons driving them under the influence of alcohol, drugs and (or) intoxicated 
1. Violation of traffic rules by a person driving a car, trolleybus, tram or another motor vehicle or operation of vehicles under the influence of alcohol, drugs and (or) intoxicated, entailing, through negligence, moderate bodily harm - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to one thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of ten years.
2. The same act, which, through negligence, caused grievous bodily -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of ten years.
3. The act, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed the death of a person through negligence -
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for up to seven years with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to ten years.
4. The act, provided for by part one of this article, which, through negligence, entails the death of two or more persons -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to ten years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities. 
Note.
The persons specified in this article shall not include those deprived of the right to drive vehicles.
Footnote. Chapter 14 is supplemented with

Section 793. Original section/article: 345-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 794. Original section/article: 346. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Driving a vehicle by a person deprived of this right and being under the influence of alcohol, drugs and (or) intoxicated, and also transferring the operation of a vehicle to such a person or admission of such a person to driving a vehicle 
1. Driving a vehicle by a person deprived of this right and being under the influence of alcohol, drugs and (or) intoxicated, or transferring the operation of a vehicle to such a person, and also admission of such a person to driving a vehicle, which is committed by an official or owner, or possessor of a vehicle -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The actions, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed, through negligence, damage to vehicles, goods, road and other structures or other property, as well as causing minor bodily harm, -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to six years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The same acts that entailed, through negligence, moderate bodily harm -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to seven years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The acts, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed, through negligence, grievous bodily harm -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of six to eight years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
5. The acts, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed the death of a person through negligence -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to nine years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
6. The acts, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed the death of two or more persons through negligence -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of eight to ten years with lifetime deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 795. Original section/article: 346. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 796. Original section/article: 347. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Leaving the place of road traffic accident
Leaving the place of road traffic accident by person driving transport vehicle and violated the traffic rules or vehicles operation, in the case of occurrence of grave consequences, provided by Articles 345, 345-1 and 346 of this Code, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without it.
Note. A person, who leaved a place of road traffic in connection of rendering of assistance to injured person shall be released from criminal responsibility under this Article.
Footnote.

Section 797. Original section/article: 347. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 798. Original section/article: 348. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Substandard repair of transport vehicles or release for service with technical failures
1. Substandard repair of vehicles, means of communication, signaling means or communication or other transport equipment, as well as release for service of certainly technically disabled transport vehicles by person, responsible for the technical state of transport vehicles, or nonfulfillment of requirements of established rules of ensuring of road safety by civil servant, responsible for the technical state and vehicles operation, if these actions are entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same actions, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
4. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 799. Original section/article: 348. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 800. Original section/article: 349. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Admission to drive the transport vehicle of a driver, not having a right to drive
1. Admission to drive the transport vehicle of a driver, not having the rights to drive the transport vehicles or rights to drive the transport vehicles of relevant category, by civil servant or possessor or owner of transport vehicle, if this action is entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same actions, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 801. Original section/article: 349. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 802. Original section/article: 350. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional disablement of transport vehicles or means of communication
1. Intentional destruction, damaging or disablement for operation by other method of transport vehicles, means of communication, signaling means or communication or other transport equipment, as well as blocking of transport services, if these actions entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence or infliction of heavy damage, or derangement of transport and communication, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 803. Original section/article: 350. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 804. Original section/article: 351. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules, ensuring the safe operation of transport
1. Violation of safety rules or transport vehicles operation by passenger, pedestrian or other road user (except for the person, driving the transport vehicle), if this action is entailed the grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to four years or imprisonment for the same term.
3. the action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to eight years. 
Footnote.

Section 805. Original section/article: 351. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 806. Original section/article: 352. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unauthorized unnecessarily train stop
Unauthorized unnecessarily train stop by emergency stop device or by disconnecting of air break line or by other method, if it is entailed the death of person or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to eight years.

Section 807. Original section/article: 352-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interference with the operation of an aircraft
1. Interference with the operation of an aircraft by directing laser devices or unmanned aerial vehicles at the aircraft –
shall be punished by a fine of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to two hundred hours, or by arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same act, if negligently causing serious or moderate harm to a person’s health or causing major damage, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by correctional labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The act provided for in part one of this article, which negligently causes the death of a person, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to eight years.
4. The act provided for in part one of this article, which negligently causes the death of two or more persons, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of six to ten years.
Footnote. Chapter 13 was supplemented with

Section 808. Original section/article: 352-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 809. Original section/article: 353. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of current rules on transport
1. Violation of current rules on transport of maintenance of order and traffic safety by persons, exercising management functions in the road, construction and other organizations and responsible for the road operation and road structures, their equipment, as well as for organization of road traffic, if this action is entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days. 
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 810. Original section/article: 353. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 811. Original section/article: 354. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of safety rules upon construction, operation or repair of main pipelines
1. Violation of safety rules upon construction, operation or repair of main pipelines, if this action is entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days. 
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person or infliction of heavy damage by negligence, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 812. Original section/article: 354. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 813. Original section/article: 355. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional damage or destruction of the pipeline
1. Intentional damage or destruction of the pipeline, as well as oil and gas pipelines, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action:
1) entailed infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence;
2) committed repeatedly;
3) committed by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article:
1) entailed pollution of environment;
2) entailed infliction of heavy damage;
3) committed by criminal group;
4) entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 814. Original section/article: 355. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 815. Original section/article: 356. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Careless damage or destruction of pipelines
1. Damaging or destruction of pipelines, as well as oil and gas pipelines, committed by negligence, entailed deviation from established procedure of operation or created a real threat of infliction of harm to the health of people or environment, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, entailed:
1) infliction of grievous or average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence;
2) pollution of environment;
3) infliction of heavy damage;
4) the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 816. Original section/article: 356. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 817. Original section/article: 357. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure to render assistance to the suffering distress by captain of a ship
1. Failure to render assistance to people, suffering distress at sea or on other waterway by captain of a ship, if this assistance may be rendered without grave danger to his (her) vessel, crew and passengers, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
2. Failure to take appropriate measures by captain of one of the vessels, fallen aboard at sea or on other waterway for salvage of another vessel, entailed loss of a ship or other grievous consequences by negligence, if these measures may be taken without grave danger to his (her) vessel, crew and passengers, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 818. Original section/article: 357. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 819. Original section/article: 358. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Control of air, sea, river, or a small vessel by person, being in a state of alcohol, drugs and (or) toxic intoxication, transfer of control to such person or admission to control of air, sea, river, or a small vessel of that person
1. Control of air, sea, river, or a small vessel by person, being in a state of alcohol, drugs and (or) toxic intoxication, or transfer of control of such vessel to the person, being in a state of alcohol, drugs and (or) toxic intoxication, as well as admission to control of such vessel of person, being in a state of alcohol, drugs and (or) toxic intoxication, committed by civil servant or possessor or owner of such vessel, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for up to two years. 
2. The same actions, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence,-
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to six years.
4. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to seven years.
5. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 820. Original section/article: 358. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 821. Original section/article: 359. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Admission to control of air, sea or river vessel of person, not having the right to control
1. Admission of person, not having the rights to control of vessel, to control of such vessel, by civil servant or possessor or owner of air, sea or river vessel, if this action is entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same actions, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence,-
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 822. Original section/article: 359. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 823. Original section/article: 360. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of international flights 
1. Nonobservance of routes, landing places, air gates, flight elevation, specified in the permission or other violation of rules of international flights –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it. 
2. The same action, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 824. Original section/article: 360. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 15. CORRUPTION AND OTHER CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS
AGAINST THE INTERESTS OF THE STATE SERVICEA ND THE
STATE MANAGEMENT

Section 825. Original section/article: 361. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of official authorities
1. The use by a person, authorized to perform state functions, or by a person equated to him or her, or by an official of his or her official authorities against the interests of the service for the purposes of deriving benefits and advantages for himself (herself) or other persons or organizations, or infliction harm to other persons or organizations, if it entailed significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
2-1. The same act committed by a law enforcement officer –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. an action, provided by first part of this Article, committed by person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
4. Acts provided for by paragraphs 1, 2-1 or three of this Article:
1) committed in the interests of a criminal group;
2) committed in the performance of official duties, which are established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, repatriates and persons, having a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in connection with property legalization by them", using the information obtained in the process of property legalization;
3) entailed grave consequences, –
4) committed by a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or by a judge, –
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
Footnote.

Section 826. Original section/article: 361. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 827. Original section/article: 362. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Excess of powers or official authorities
1. Abuse of power or official authorities, that is, commission by a person, authorized to perform state functions, either by a person equated to him, or by an official of actions that clearly beyond his rights and powers and entailing significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, committed by person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years or without it.
4. Actions, provided by parts one and three of this Article, entailed grave consequences or committed:
1) with the use of force or the threat of its use;
2) with the use of weapons or special means;
3) for the purposes of deriving of benefits and advantages for themselves or other persons or organizations or infliction of harm to other persons or organizations, 
4) in performance of official duties, which are established by the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Amnesty in connection with the legalization of property, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years, and in the cases, provided by paragraph 3), with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
Footnote.

Section 828. Original section/article: 362. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 829. Original section/article: 363. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Assignment of powers of civil servant
Assignment of powers of civil servant by the state servant, not being a civil servant, and in connection with this commission of actions by them, which are entailed infliction of substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 830. Original section/article: 363. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 831. Original section/article: 364. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal participation in the entrepreneurial activity
1. Establishment of an organization, carrying out entrepreneurial activity, or participation in management of such organization personally or through an authorized attorney, contrary to the prohibition, established by the Law, by a person, authorized to perform state functions, or by a person equated to him (her), or by an official, if this action is associated with provision of benefits and advantages to such an organization or with wardship in other form, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
2-1. The act provided for by part one of this article, committed by a law enforcement officer, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, committed by person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
4. An act, provided for by paragraph 1 of this article, committed by a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or by a judge, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 832. Original section/article: 364. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 833. Original section/article: 365. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obstruction of engaging in legitimate business activities 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 834. Original section/article: 365. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
1. Restriction of the rights and legitimate interests of an individual entrepreneur or commercial organization, regardless of the organizational and legal form or form of ownership, as well as restriction of independence or other illegal interference in the activities of an individual entrepreneur or commercial organization, including by violating the procedure for conducting inspections, unlawful refusal in issuing or evading the issuance of a special permit (license) to carry out certain activities, illegal suspension of the activities of a business entity and (or) operations on its bank account, forced unlawful involvement of a private business entity in charity and other activities, unlawful refusal, obstruction in the application or illegal non-use of benefits and preferences, if these acts are committed by a person authorized to perform state functions, or a person equated to him, or an official using his official powers contrary to the interests of the service for the purpose of harming other persons or organizations or deriving benefits and advantages for himself or other persons or organizations, if this caused significant harm to the rights and legitimate interests of citizens or organizations or the interests of society or the state, protected by law, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The same actions, committed:
1) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) on a large scale, - 
4) a law enforcement officer, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed:
1) by person, holding responsible state position;
2) on specially large scale;
3) by criminal group or in the interests of criminal group;
4) in the performance of official duties, which are established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, repatriates and persons, having a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in connection with property legalization by them", using the information obtained in the process of property legalization, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for up to eight years with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The acts provided for by parts one, two or three of this article, committed by a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or by a judge, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment from six to ten years with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 835. Original section/article: 365. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 836. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acceptance of a bribe
1. Acceptance of a bribe in the form of money, securities, other property, right to property, property benefits for themselves or other persons, by person, authorized to exercise the state functions, or person, equated to him (her), or person, holding responsible state position, or civil servant, as well as civil servant of foreign state or international organization personally or through the intermediary, for the actions (omission) for the benefit of briber or persons represented by him (her), if such actions (omission) are included in the official powers of this person, or it may promote to such actions (omission) by virtue of official position, as well as for general wardship or connivance –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount from twenty to fifty times the amount of bribe or by deprivation of liberty for a term up to five years with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to occupy certain positions or engage in certain activity.
1-1. The same act, committed by an employee of a law enforcement agency or a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or a judge, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty fold amount of the bribe, or imprisonment for up to six years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. Acts provided for by parts one and 1-1 of this article, committed in a significant amount, as well as receiving a bribe for illegal actions (inaction) -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount from fifty to sixty times the amount of bribe or deprivation of liberty for a term of three to seven years, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of liberty to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
3. The acts provided for by parts one, 1-1 or two of this article, if they are committed:
1) by extortion;
2) by group of persons on previous concert;
3) on a large scale;
4) repeatedly, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount from sixty to seventy times the amount of bribe or by deprivation of liberty for a term of seven to twelve years, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed by criminal group, as well as on a special large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount from seventy to eighty times the amount of bribe or deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
Note. Obtaining of property or other property benefit for the first time, as a gift in the absence of preliminary agreement for early committed legal actions (omission) by person, specified in a first part of this Article shall not be a crime by virtue of insignificance and prosecuted in a disciplinary or administrative procedure, if the cost of a gift does not exceed two monthly calculation indices.
Footnote.

Section 837. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 838. Original section/article: 367. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Giving bribe
1. Giving a bribe to person, authorized to exercise the state functions, or person, equated to him (her), or person, holding responsible state position, or civil servant, as well as civil servant of foreign state or international organization personally or through the intermediary – 
is punishable by a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty times the amount of a bribe or imprisonment for up to five years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The same action, committed in significant amount, - 
is punishable by a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the amount of a bribe or imprisonment for a term of three to seven years, with confiscation of property, with life imprisonment for holding certain positions or engaging in certain activities.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, if they are committed:
1) by group of persons on previous concert;
2) on a large scale;
3) repeatedly, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of forty to fifty fold amount of the bribe, or imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, if they are committed on a special large amount or by criminal group, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of fifty to sixty fold amount of the bribe, or imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Note.
1. Transfer of a gift for the first time to the person, specified in a first part of

Section 839. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, in the amount or the cost, not exceeding two monthly calculation indices shall not involve criminal responsibility for the legal actions (omission), early committed by him (her), if the actions (omission), committed by this person were not be conditioned by preliminary agreement.
2. A person, who has given a bribe shall be released from criminal responsibility, if in relation of him (her) extortion of a bribe was on the part of person, specified in first part of this

Section 840. Original section/article: 366. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, or if this person voluntary reported on giving a bribe to the law enforcement or special state body of bribery.
Footnote.

Section 841. Original section/article: 367. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 842. Original section/article: 368. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mediation in bribery
1. Mediation in bribery, in other words contribution to taker of bribe and giver of a bribe in reaching or performance of the agreement between them on taking and giving a bribe, - 
is punishable by a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the amount of a bribe or imprisonment for up to three years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly or by criminal group or person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty fold amount of the bribe, or imprisonment for up to six years, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 843. Original section/article: 368. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 844. Original section/article: 369. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Forgery by an official
1. Official forgery, that is, introduction by a person, authorized to perform state functions, or by a person, equated to him/her or by an official of knowingly false information in official documents or making corrections to these documents, distorting their actual content, or issuance of knowingly false or forged documents, if these actions are committed for the purposes of deriving benefits and advantages for themselves or other persons or organizations or infliction of harm to other persons or organizations, – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
2-1. The same act committed by a law enforcement officer –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, if it is committed by person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for up to five years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
4. An act provided for by part one of this article, if it is committed by a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or by a judge, -
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with lifelong deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
Footnote.

Section 845. Original section/article: 369. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 846. Original section/article: 370. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inaction on service
1. Inaction on service, that is non-performance by the person, authorized for performance of state functions, or the person, or an official of his (her) official duties for the purpose of deriving benefits and advantages for himself (herself) or other persons or organizations, or infliction of harm to other persons or organizations if this resulted in significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
2-1. The same act committed by a law enforcement officer –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities.
3. The same action, committed by person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
4. The acts provided for by parts one, 2-1 or three of this article:
1) entailed grave consequences;
2) committed by a person holding a responsible state position in a law enforcement agency, or by a judge, -
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for up to seven years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with confiscation of property, with life deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity.
Footnote.

Section 847. Original section/article: 370. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.12.2020 № 384-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 848. Original section/article: 370-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inaction in the service of a person holding a responsible public position, or another head of a law enforcement or special state body 
Inaction in the service of a person holding a responsible public position in a law enforcement or special state body, or another head of a law enforcement or special state body, consisting in failure to take measures within their powers to prevent attacks on citizens that directly threaten their lives, armed seizure of buildings, destruction of property of citizens or organizations in a generally dangerous way, if this deed was committed under a state of emergency or entailed grave consequences, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Note. In this article:
another head of a law enforcement agency shall mean the head of a territorial or equivalent body or a separate subdivision of a law enforcement body;
another head of a special state body shall mean the head of a department, territorial body, state institution, a separate subdivision of a special state body.
Footnote. Chapter 15 shall be supplemented by

Section 849. Original section/article: 370-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 850. Original section/article: 370-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Refusal or evasion of a law enforcement or special state body officer from the performance of service duties 
1. Refusal by a law enforcement or special state body officer to execute an order issued in prescribed manner, which caused significant harm to the interests of the service, as well as evasion by an officer of a law enforcement or special state body from performing the duties of the service, committed by simulating an illness or causing injury to himself (self-mutilation) or other harm to his health, or forgery of documents, or other deceit that caused significant harm to the interests of the service, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
2. The deeds provided for by the first part of this article:
1) committed during an emergency situation or riots;
2) related to providing security of protected persons or facilities, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The deeds provided for by the first part of this article, committed under a state of emergency or martial law, or which entailed grave consequences, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to ten years.
Note. In this article, protected persons and facilities shall mean persons and facilities protected in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the State Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan".
Footnote. Chapter 15 shall be supplemented by

Section 851. Original section/article: 370-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 852. Original section/article: 371. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Negligence 
1. Negligence, in other words nonperformance or improper performance of obligations by person, authorized to exercise the state functions, or person equated to him (her), or civil servant, or person, holding responsible state position, due to unconscientious or negligent attitude to the service, if it is entailed infliction of substantial harm to rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 853. Original section/article: 371. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 16. CRIMINAL INFRACTION AGAINST MANAGEMENT
PROCEDURE

Section 854. Original section/article: 372. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Desecration of state symbols
Desecration of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall be punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a up to nine hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 855. Original section/article: 372. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 856. Original section/article: 373. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Public insult and other encroachment on the honor and dignity of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – Leader of the Nation, desecration of the images of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – Leader of the Nation, obstruction of the legal activity of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – Leader of the Nation
Footnote.

Section 857. Original section/article: 373. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 858. Original section/article: 374. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of guarantees of inviolability of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – Leader of the Nation 
Footnote.

Section 859. Original section/article: 374. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 860. Original section/article: 375. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infringement on honour and dignity of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and interfering with his (her) activity
1. Public insult and other infringement on honour and dignity of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan – shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same act committed through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. Impact on the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan or his (her) close relatives in any form in order to interfering with performance by him (her) of his (her) duties – 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Note. Public performances, containing criticisms on policy conducted by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not entail criminal responsibility under this Article.
Footnote.

Section 861. Original section/article: 375. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 862. Original section/article: 376. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Infringement on honour and dignity of the deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and interfering with his (her) activity
1. Public insult of the deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon performance by him (her) the parliamentary duties or in connection of their performance – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same act committed through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. Impact on the deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan or his (her) close relatives in any form in order to interfering with performance by him (her) of his (her) duties – 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Note. Public performances, containing criticisms on parliamentary activity of the deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not entail criminal responsibility under this Article.
Footnote.

Section 863. Original section/article: 376. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 864. Original section/article: 377. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obstruction of the activity of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 865. Original section/article: 377. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
shall be amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).
1. Interference in any form in the activity of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to obstruct the exercise of its powers,– 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 866. Original section/article: 377. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 867. Original section/article: 378. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Insult of representative of authority
1. Insult of representative of authority upon performance by him (her) of his (her) duties or in connection with their performance – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. The same act committed in public , or through the use of mass media, telecommunications networks or online platforms, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Note. Public performances, containing criticisms on official activity of the representative of authority shall not entail criminal responsibility under this Article. 
Footnote.

Section 868. Original section/article: 378. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 869. Original section/article: 379. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disobedience to a representative of authority 
1. Disobedience to a lawful demand or order of a representative of authority, committed in an emergency situation or in the course of mass riots, as well as in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or in a zone where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The deed provided for by the first part of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior collusion;
2) repeatedly, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 870. Original section/article: 379. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 871. Original section/article: 380. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Threat or violence against a representative of authority 
1. Threat of murder, infliction of harm to health, damage or destruction of property against a representative of power or his relatives associated with performance of his official duties or out of revenge for the performance of his official duties, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The act provided for by the first part of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
2) in an emergency situation or in the course of riots;
3) in an area where a state of emergency was declared, or in an anti-terrorist operation zone;
4) through the use of telecommunications networks, objects of informatization, including the Internet, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Use of violence that is not dangerous to life or health in relation to persons and on the grounds referred to in part one of this article, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of two to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
4. The act provided for by part three of this article, committed:
1) in relation to two or more persons;
2) in relation to a person who is obviously in a helpless state for the perpetrator, as well as associated with kidnapping of a person or taking a hostage;
3) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
4) for the purpose of concealing another crime or facilitating its commission;
5) repeatedly;
6) in respect of obviously a minor;
7) in an emergency situation or in the course of unrest;
8) in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or in a zone where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, -
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
5. Use of violence dangerous to life or health in relation to persons and on the grounds specified in part one of this article, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years.
6. The act provided for by part five of this article, committed:
1) in relation to two or more persons;
2) in relation to a person who is clearly in a helpless condition for the perpetrator, as well as associated with the kidnapping of a person or taking of a hostage;
3) with extreme atrocity;
4) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
5) for the purpose of concealing another crime or facilitating its commission;
6) repeatedly;
7) in respect of knowingly a minor;
8) in an emergency situation or in the course of riots;
9) in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or in a zone where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years.
Footnote.

Section 872. Original section/article: 380. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 873. Original section/article: 380-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Endangering the life of an employee of a law enforcement body, a special state body, a military serviceman, a state inspector for wildlife protection, an inspector of a specialized organization for wildlife protection, a huntsman 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 874. Original section/article: 380-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
1. Endangering the life, i.e., deliberate actions aimed at causing death, of an employee of a law enforcement body, a special state body, a military serviceman, a state inspector for wildlife protection, an inspector of a specialized organization for wildlife protection, a huntsman or their relatives in connection with their performance of official duties or revenge for their performance of official duties -
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years with confiscation of property or without it.
2. The same act, committed: 
1) in respect of two or more persons; 
2) in respect of a person known to the perpetrator to be in a helpless state, as well as linked with kidnapping or hostage taking; 
3) in respect of a woman known to the perpetrator to be pregnant;
4) with special cruelty;
5) in a way that is life-threatening to others; 
6) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement, a criminal group; 
7) for the purpose of concealing another crime or facilitating its commission, as well as rape or sexual violence;
8) repeatedly; 
9) in respect of a knowingly minor person; 
10) in the area where emergency state is declared, or in the area of antiterroristic operation;
11) in an emergency situation or during mass unrest, – 
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life deprivation of liberty with confiscation of property.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented by

Section 875. Original section/article: 380-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2017 № 84-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 876. Original section/article: 380-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Use of force against a state inspector for wildlife protection, an inspector of a specialized organization for wildlife protection, a huntsman 
1. The use of force not dangerous to life or health, or the threat of violence against a state inspector for wildlife protection, an inspector of a specialized organization for wildlife protection, a huntsman or his/her relatives in connection with their performance of their official duties or revenge for their performance of official duties -
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The use of force dangerous to life or health against the persons specified in part one of this article -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years.
3. The act, provided for by part two of this article, which is committed: 
1) against two or more persons; 
2) against a person who is known by the guilty person to be helpless, and also involving the abduction of a person or the taking of a hostage;
3) brutally; 
4) by a group of persons, a group of persons by previous concert;
5) in order to conceal another crime or facilitate its commission;
6) repeatedly; 
7) against a person known to be a minor; 
8) in an emergency situation or during mass riots;
9) in an area with announced state of emergency, or in an area of anti-terrorist operation -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented with

Section 877. Original section/article: 380-2. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 878. Original section/article: 381. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with activity of prosecutor and nonfulfillment of his (her) legal requirements
Nonfulfillment of acts of procuracy supervision, as well as interfering with his (her) activity, if it is entailed infliction of substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 879. Original section/article: 381. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 880. Original section/article: 382. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of details on safety measures, used in relation of civil servant, holding responsible state position
1. Disclosure of details on safety measures, used in relation of civil servant, holding responsible state position, as well as his (her) relatives, by person, to whom these details were entrusted or became known in connection with his (her) official activity, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 881. Original section/article: 382. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 882. Original section/article: 383. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Acquisition or sale of official documents and state awards
Illegal acquisition or sale of official documents, providing the rights or releasing from duties, as well as the state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan or USSR – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
Footnote.

Section 883. Original section/article: 383. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 884. Original section/article: 384. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal suppression of documents, stealing, destruction, damaging or concealment of documents, stamps, seals
1. Illegal confiscation of the passport, certificate of identity or other personal paper of citizen – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. Stealing of the passport, certificate of identity or other personal paper of citizen – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
3. Stealing, destruction, damaging or concealment of official documents, stamps or seals, committed from selfish or other personal interest -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 885. Original section/article: 384. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 886. Original section/article: 385. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Forgery, production or sale of forged documents, stamps, seals, forms, state postage stamps, state awards
1. Forgery of certificate of identity or other official document, granting the rights or releasing from duties, or sale of such document, as well as production or sale of forged stamps, seals, forms, state postage stamps, state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan or USSR – 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to four years.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by a fine of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to four years.
3. Use of certainly forged documents – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 887. Original section/article: 385. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 888. Original section/article: 386. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Forgery, destruction of vehicle identification number, sale of transport vehicle with certainly forged identification number
1. Forgery or destruction of identification number, the number of body, chassis, engine, as well as forgery of the state registration plate of transport vehicle, use of certainly forged or false state registration plate, as well as sale of transport vehicle with certainly forged identification number, the number of body, chassis, engine or with certainly forged state registration plate or sale of body, chassis, engine with certainly forged number – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed by group of persons on previous concert or by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 889. Original section/article: 386. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 890. Original section/article: 387. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion of conscription for military service
Footnote. The title of

Section 891. Original section/article: 387. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Evasion from call to military service in the absence of lawful grounds for exception from this service – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term. 
2. The same action, committed:
1) by infliction of self-harm to the health;
2) by simulation;
3) by forgery of documents or other fraud,- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Note. The draft-age man shall be released from criminal responsibility, if before the transfer of the case in a court by investigation body he voluntary came to the recruiting station.
Footnote.

Section 892. Original section/article: 387. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 893. Original section/article: 388. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion of call on mobilization 
1. Evasion from call to military service on mobilization to the Armed Forces, other armed forces and military formation of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, as well as evasion of further calls for completing the staff of Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, committed in war time, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years. 
Footnote.

Section 894. Original section/article: 388. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 895. Original section/article: 388-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional failure to fulfill mobilization tasks or mobilization orders during the period of mobilization, martial law and wartime
1. Deliberate failure to fulfill mobilization tasks or mobilization orders during the period of mobilization, martial law and wartime, committed by an official or a person performing managerial functions in a commercial or other organization, or by a person equated to persons authorized to perform state functions, -
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restraint of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same act, which entailed grave consequences, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term from five to ten years.
Footnote. Chapter 16 is supplemented by

Section 896. Original section/article: 388-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 332-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 897. Original section/article: 389. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Arbitrariness
1. Arbitrariness, in other words unauthorized execution of actual or supposed right, contested by another person or organization contrary to the established legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. The same action, inflicted substantial harm to the rights or legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, committed with the use of force or with the threat of its use or by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
4. The actions, provided by second or third parts of this Article, entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 898. Original section/article: 389. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 899. Original section/article: 390. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unwarranted appropriation of title of representative of authority or civil servant, holding responsible state position
1. Unwarranted appropriation of title of representative of authority or civil servant, holding responsible state position, in order to obtain power authorization – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. Unwarranted appropriation of title of representative of authority or civil servant, holding responsible state position, linked with commission of a crime on this basis, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. Unwarranted appropriation of title of civil servant, holding position, established by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to obtain power authorization – 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 900. Original section/article: 390. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 901. Original section/article: 391. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal hoist of the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Illegal hoist of the State Flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the trading vessel- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
Footnote.

Section 902. Original section/article: 391. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 903. Original section/article: 392. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional illegal crossing of the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Intentional illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan out of crossing points on the State Border, as well as intentional illegal crossing the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the specified points, committed with false documents or with fraudulent use of valid documents of third parties, as well as with violation of the established procedure, - 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or imprisonment for up to three years, with expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
1-1. The same acts committed:
1) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement;
2) repeatedly;
3) by a person who is subject to a known prohibition (temporary restriction) on entry into or exit from the Republic of Kazakhstan,
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or imprisonment for up to four years, with expulsion from the Republic of Kazakhstan of the foreigner or stateless person.
2. Acts provided for in parts one or one of this article, committed by a criminal group or with the use of violence or the threat of its use, 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of four to seven years with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
Footnote.

Section 904. Original section/article: 392. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 905. Original section/article: 393. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Nonperformance of decision on deportation
Footnote.

Section 906. Original section/article: 393. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 21.01.2019 № 217-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 907. Original section/article: 394. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization of illegal migration
1. Organization of illegal migration by providing transport vehicles or forged documents, or dwelling or other premises, as well as providing citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreigners and stateless persons with other services for illegal entry, exit, or movement within the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan –
shall be punished by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or community service for up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
2. The same act committed repeatedly either by a person using his official powers or by a group of persons by prior conspiracy, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to seven thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years, with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
3. An act provided for in parts one or two of this article, committed by a criminal group or resulting in grave consequences, – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
Footnote.

Section 908. Original section/article: 394. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 909. Original section/article: 395. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Repeated violation of rules of involvement and use of foreign labour in the Republic of Kazakhstan
Repeated acceptance the foreigners and persons without citizenship, residing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for employment by employer, without relevant permission of the authorized body, as well as repeated violation of rules of the use of foreign labour by the employer in the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 910. Original section/article: 395. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 911. Original section/article: 396. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal change of the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1. Withdrawal, moving or destruction of border marks for the purposes of illegal change of the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed repeatedly or entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 912. Original section/article: 396. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 913. Original section/article: 397. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal use of emblems and signs of the Red Crescent, the Red Cross, Red Crystal
Illegal use of emblems and differential signs of Red Crescent, the Red Cross, Red Crystal, as well as the name of Red Crescent, the Red Cross, Red Crystal – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
Footnote.

Section 914. Original section/article: 397. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 915. Original section/article: 398. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of protection of lines and installations of communication, as well as objects, subject to the state protection
1. Violation of Violation of rules of protection of lines and installations of communication, if this action is entailed termination of communication or created the threat of termination of communication, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours.
2. Violation of rules of protection of lines of communication, entailed damaging of cable line of intercity communication or termination of intercity communication, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and twenty hours, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
3. Violation of requirements on safety ensuring of the objects, subject to the state protection, building of the state bodies and state establishments, entailed their capture or infliction of other grave consequences, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 916. Original section/article: 398. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 917. Original section/article: 399. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal processing, production, acquisition, sale or use of special technical means of surreptitious obtaining of information
1. Illegal processing, production, acquisition, sale or use of special technical means of surreptitious obtaining of information – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed by group of persons on previous concert or on a large scale, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 918. Original section/article: 399. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 919. Original section/article: 400. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of procedure for organizing and holding peaceful assemblies
Footnote. The heading of

Section 920. Original section/article: 400. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
Organization, holding or participation in an illegal meeting, rally, processions, picket, demonstration or other illegal public measure, as well as rendering assistance to organization or holding of such measures by provision of premises, communication means, equipment, transport, if these actions are inflicted substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 921. Original section/article: 400. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 25.05.2020 № 334-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 922. Original section/article: 401. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Management of prohibited industrial action, interfering with the work of organization in war time or conditions of emergency situations 
Management of prohibited industrial action in war time or conditions of emergency situations, as well as interfering with the work of organization in these conditions – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 923. Original section/article: 401. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 924. Original section/article: 402. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The actions, provoking to continued participation in the industrial action, recognized by court as illegal
1. Calls for continued participation in a strike recognized illegal by the court, committed in public or with the use of mass media or telecommunications networks, as well as bribery of employees for this purpose –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 200 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to 200 hours, or by arrest for a term of up to 50 days.
2. The same actions, inflicted substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state or entailed the mass disorders, - 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to 2,000 monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to 500 hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to two years, or by imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of up to two years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 925. Original section/article: 402. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 04.05.2020 № 321-VІ (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 19.06.2024 № 94-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 926. Original section/article: 403. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal interference of members of public associations in the activity of the state bodies
1. Interfering with illegal activity of the state bodies or assignment of functions of the state bodies or their civil servants by the members of public associations, as well as creation of organizations of political parties in the state bodies, if these actions are inflicted substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to one year or without it.
2. The same actions, committed by the leader of public association, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for up to two hundred hours, or arrest for up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 927. Original section/article: 403. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 928. Original section/article: 404. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Creation, management and participation in activity of illegal public and other associations
1. Creation or management of religious or public association, an activity of which is linked with the violence against citizens or other infliction of harm to their health, or incitement of citizens to refusal to perform the civil obligations or commission of other unlawful actions, as well as creation or management of party on the religious basis, or political party or trade union, financed by sources, prohibited by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to six years.
2. Creation of public association, proclaiming or implementing the racial, national, generic, social, class or religious intolerance in the practice or exclusiveness, calling for the violent overthrow of the constitutional system, subversion of security of the state or violation of foreign territorial supremacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as management of such association –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
3. Active participation in activity of associations, specified in the first or second parts of this Article, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.

Section 929. Original section/article: 405. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Organization and participation in activity of public or religious association or other organization after court decision on prohibition of their activity or liquidation in connection with carrying out by them the extremism or terrorism 
1. Organization of activity of public or religious association or other organization, in relation of which there is a court decision, entered into legal force, on prohibition of their activity or liquidation in connection with carrying out by them the extremism or terrorism, -
shall be punished by a fine of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor of the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years, with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person.
2. Participation in activity of public or religious association or other organization, in relation of which there is a court decision, entered into legal force, on prohibition of their activity or liquidation in connection with carrying out by them the extremism or terrorism, -
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years or without such deprivation, with deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of the foreigner or stateless person.
Note. A person, terminated participation in activity of public of religious association or other organization, in relation of which there is a court decision, entered into legal force, on prohibition of their activity or liquidation in connection with carrying out by them the extremism or terrorism shall be released from criminal responsibility, if his (her) actions do not contain the components of another crime.
Footnote.

Section 930. Original section/article: 405. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 931. Original section/article: 406. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Rendering assistance to the political parties and trade unions of the foreign state
Financing, providing premises or property, or providing other assistance to political parties or trade unions of other states, if these acts have resulted in causing significant harm, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 932. Original section/article: 406. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 17. CRIMINAL OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND PROCEDURE OF EXECUTION OF PUNISHMENTS, CONSTITUTIONAL PROCEEDINGS
Footnote. The heading of Chapter 17 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 933. Original section/article: 407. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with execution of justice and carrying out of prejudicial investigation
1. Intervention in any form in the activity of the court for the purposes of interfering with execution of justice – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Intervention in any form in activity of prosecutor or person, carrying out prejudicial investigation for the purposes of interfering with comprehensive, complete and objective prejudicial investigation – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years or without it.
Footnote.

Section 934. Original section/article: 407. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 935. Original section/article: 408. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Attempt on the life of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a person administering justice, conducting pre-trial investigation, or providing legal assistance, as well as an expert or specialist 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 936. Original section/article: 408. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
Attempt on the life of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge, juror, prosecutor, a person administering justice or conducting pre-trial investigation, an attorney engaged in defense or representation, an expert, a specialist, a court bailiff, an enforcement officer, as well as their close relatives, in connection with the consideration of cases or materials in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a court, the conduct of pre-trial investigation, or the execution of a sentence, court decision, or other judicial act, committed for the purpose of obstructing the lawful activities of such persons or out of revenge for such activities, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 937. Original section/article: 408. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 938. Original section/article: 409. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Threat or violent actions in connection with the administration of constitutional proceedings, justice, pre-trial investigation, or participation in judicial proceedings 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 939. Original section/article: 409. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Threat of murder, infliction of harm to health, damage or destruction of property against a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge, a juror, as well as their relatives associated with consideration of cases or materials in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a court – 
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to four years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same act committed against a prosecutor, a person conducting a pre-trial investigation, a lawyer acting as a defense counsel or representative, an expert, a specialist, a bailiff, a court enforcement officer, or their relatives in connection with the conduct of a pre-trial investigation, the consideration of a case or materials in court, or the execution of a sentence, court decision, or other judicial act, or the provision of legal assistance, –
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The deeds provided for by the first or second parts of this article, committed:
1) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
2) in an emergency situation or during mass riots;
3) in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or in an anti-terrorist operation zone;
4) through the use of telecommunications networks, objects of informatization, including the Internet, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term..
4. Use of violence that is not dangerous to life or health in relation to persons and on the grounds specified in parts one or two of this article, -
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of three to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
5. The deed provided for by part four of this article, committed:
1) in relation to two or more persons;
2) in relation to a person who is obviously in a helpless condition for the perpetrator, as well as associated with the kidnapping of a person or taking a hostage;
3) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior agreement or a criminal group;
4) for the purpose of concealing another crime or facilitating its commission;
5) repeatedly;
6) in respect of knowingly a minor;
7) in an emergency situation or during mass riots;
8) in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or in a zone where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, -
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of five to ten years, or imprisonment for the same term.
6. Use of violence dangerous to life or health in relation to persons and on the grounds specified in parts one or two of this article, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to fifteen years.
7. The act provided for by part six of this article, committed:
1) in relation to two or more persons;
2) in relation to a person who is obviously in a helpless state for the perpetrator, as well as associated with the kidnapping of a person or taking a hostage;
3) with extreme atrocity;
4) by a group of persons, a group of persons by prior collusion or a criminal group;
5) for the purpose of concealing another crime or facilitating its commission;
6) repeatedly;
7) in respect of knowingly a minor;
8) in an emergency situation or during mass riots;
9) in an area where a state of emergency has been declared, or where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of twelve to seventeen years.
Footnote.

Section 940. Original section/article: 409. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 941. Original section/article: 410. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Contempt of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 942. Original section/article: 410. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).
1. Contempt of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the court by insulting the parties in the constitutional proceedings, other persons involved in the consideration of the appeal, their representatives, participants in the proceedings, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, consisting in insulting a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge and (or) a juror, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to two hundred hours, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
Footnote.

Section 943. Original section/article: 410. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023).

Section 944. Original section/article: 411. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Defamation against a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge, juror, prosecutor, a person conducting pre-trial investigation, an attorney engaged in defense or representation, an expert, a court bailiff, or an enforcement agent 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 945. Original section/article: 411. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Slander against a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a judge or a juror in connection with the consideration of cases or materials in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a court – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same act committed against a prosecutor, a person conducting a pre-trial investigation, an expert, a bailiff, a court enforcement officer in connection with the conduct of a pre-trial investigation, a lawyer acting as a defense counsel or representative, the conduct of a forensic examination, or the execution of a sentence, court decision, or other judicial act, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, linked with accusation of person in commission of grievous or especially grave crime, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 946. Original section/article: 411. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 05.11.2022 № 157-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2023); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 947. Original section/article: 412. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Involvement of certainly not guilty person to the criminal responsibility
1. Involvement of certainly not guilty person to the criminal responsibility – 
shall be punished with restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years.
2. The same action, combined with the accusation of a person of committing a grave or especially grave crime, or entailing grave consequences, -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to ten years, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 948. Original section/article: 412. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 02.07.2021 № 62-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 949. Original section/article: 412-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Entrapment
1. Entrapment, that is, illegal actions of an official engaged in operational-search activities or pre-trial investigation, which incited a person to commit a crime for the purpose of subsequent exposure and criminal liability or blackmail, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of three to five years, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term up to seven years.
2. The same act, accompanied by violence or the threat of violence, destruction or damage to property, or the use of material or other dependence of a person, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years. 
3. The acts provided for by parts one or two of this article:
1) entailed the commission by a person of a grave or especially grave crime or the onset of other grave consequences;
2) committed in the interests of a criminal group, -
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twelve years with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of ten years.
Footnote. Chapter 17 is supplemented by

Section 950. Original section/article: 412-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 06.10.2020 № 365-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 951. Original section/article: 413. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Certainly illegal release from criminal responsibility
Certainly illegal release from criminal responsibility of a person, suspected or accused in commission of a crime by prosecutor or person, executing prejudicial investigation, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.

Section 952. Original section/article: 414. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Certainly illegal detention, placement in custody or detention in custody
1. Certainly illegal detention – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
2. Certainly illegal placement in custody or detention in custody – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to six years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to ten years, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years.
4. Intentional non-notification of relatives of suspected person on a fact of his (her) detention and the location, illegal refusal in provision of information on place of detention in custody of person to the citizen, having the right to receive such information, as well as falsification of time of drawing up protocol of detention or time of actual detention – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to two hundred and sixty hours, or arrest for a term of ten to fifty days, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to three years.
Footnote.

Section 953. Original section/article: 414. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 954. Original section/article: 415. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Compulsion of evidence
Compulsion of suspected, accused, injured, witness of evidence, filing of application on committed crime or compulsion of failure to give evidence, or compulsion of expert of giving conclusion by use of threats, blackmail or other illegal actions on the part of prosecutor or person, executing prejudicial investigation, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to four years.
Footnote.

Section 955. Original section/article: 415. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 956. Original section/article: 416. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Falsification of evidences and operational-search, counterintelligence materials 
Footnote. The title of

Section 957. Original section/article: 416. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 36-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication).
1. Falsification of evidences on civil case by person, participating in the case, or by his (her) representative – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. Falsification of evidences on the cases on administrative infractions, committed by civil servant, authorized to drawing up protocol on administrative infractions, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
3. Falsification of investigative, counterintelligence materials or protocols of secret investigative actions or annexes to them by an official of the body, carrying out operational-investigative, counterintelligence activities, –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to five thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to six years.
4. Falsification of evidences in the course of criminal proceedings by person, executing prejudicial investigation, prosecutor, specialist, participating in the procedural actions, or defence counsel – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to six thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years.
5. The actions, provided by first, second, third or fourth parts of this Article, entailed imposition of illegal sentence, decision or other judicial act, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to eight years with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to seven years.
6. Tampering with evidence in a criminal proceeding on a crime against sexual inviolability of a minor, a grave or especially grave crime, as well as entailing grave consequences, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to ten years, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to eight years.
Footnote.

Section 958. Original section/article: 416. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 28.12.2016 № 36-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of two months after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 959. Original section/article: 417. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provocation of commercial bribery or corruption
1. Provocation of commercial bribery, in other words attempt to transfer the money, property benefits and priorities to the person, exercising management functions in commercial or other organizations, without his (her) consent for the purposes of artificial creation of evidences of commission of a crime or blackmail, - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to six thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. Provocation of bribery, in other words the same action, committed in relation of person, authorized to exercise the state functions, or person, equated to him (her), or civil servant, or person, holding responsible state position, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to eight years, with the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a term of up to five years. 
Footnote.

Section 960. Original section/article: 417. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 961. Original section/article: 418. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Imposition of certainly illegal sentence, decision or other judicial act
1. Imposition of certainly illegal sentence, decision or other judicial act by judge (judges) – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to six years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
2. The same action, related with rendering of illegal court decision to imprisonment or entailed other grave consequences, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of six to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to ten years.

Section 962. Original section/article: 419. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Knowingly false denunciation
1. Knowingly false denunciation on commission of criminal offence - 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a period of up to two hundred hours.
2. Knowingly false denunciation on commission of a crime – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. An action, provided by second part of this Article, linked with accusation of a person in relation of corruption, grievous or especially grave crime or committed for selfish motives, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of three to eight years. 
4. The actions, provided by second or third parts of this Article, committed in the interests of criminal group, - 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years. 
Footnote.

Section 963. Original section/article: 419. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 964. Original section/article: 420. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Knowingly false testimony, conclusion of expert, specialist or erroneous translation
1. Knowingly false testimony of witness, injured person or conclusion of expert, specialist in a court or in the course of prejudicial investigation, as well as certainly erroneous translation, made by translator in the same cases, as well as upon execution of executive documents, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed on criminal case on corruption, grievous or especially grave crime or for selfish motives, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.

Section 965. Original section/article: 421. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure of the witness or injured person to give evidence
Failure of the witness or injured person to give evidence in a court or in the course of prejudicial investigation – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of two thousand to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Note. A person shall not subject to criminal responsibility for failure to give evidence against himself (herself), husband (wife) or their close relatives, as well as minister of church – for failure to give evidence against those who confided to them in confession, mediators – against persons and on circumstances, become known to them in connection with the mediation, participants of national preventive mechanism – against persons and on circumstances, become known to them from conversations with persons, detained in the special institutions, providing temporary isolation from society.
Footnote.

Section 966. Original section/article: 421. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 967. Original section/article: 422. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Bribery or compulsion to give false evidences or evasion of giving evidences, false conclusion or to erroneous translation
1. Bribery of a witness, injured person in order to give by them the false evidences or expert in order to give by him (her) false conclusion or false evidences, as well as translator in order to make him (her) erroneous translation – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Compulsion of a witness, injured person to give false evidences, expert to give false conclusion or translator to making erroneous translation, as well as compulsion of specified persons to evasion of giving evidences, linked with blackmail, threat of homicide, infliction of harm to the health, destruction of property of these persons or their relatives, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by second part of this Article, committed with the use of force, not danger for life or health of specified persons, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years or imprisonment for the same term.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed by criminal group or with the use of force, danger for life or health of specified persons, as well as linked with accusation of commission of corruption, grievous or especially grave crime, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to eight years.
Footnote.

Section 968. Original section/article: 422. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 969. Original section/article: 423. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Divulgence of data of pre-trial or closed court proceedings 
Footnote. The heading of

Section 970. Original section/article: 423. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).
Disclosure of information on pre-trial proceedings or closed trial by a person warned in accordance with the procedure established by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan about inadmissibility of its disclosure, or by a person to whom it was entrusted or became known through service, work or on other grounds under the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if the information on pre-trial proceedings was disclosed without the prosecutor’s consent, also the information on a closed trial without the judge’s consent –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 971. Original section/article: 423. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 972. Original section/article: 424. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of information on security measures applied to persons subject to state protection and information on assistance in combating corruption
Footnote. The heading of

Section 973. Original section/article: 424. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).
1. Disclosure of information about security measures applied to persons subject to state protection, if this act was committed by a person to whom the indicated information was entrusted or became known in connection with his official activities, as well as disclosure of information about the person’s appeal to a higher-ranking authority and ( or) to the management of the state body or organization of which he is (was) a member and (or) to the authorized state bodies in order to report the fact of a corruption offense or provide information about the whereabouts of a wanted person who has committed a corruption offense, or provide other assistance (subsequently) significant for the detection, suppression, disclosure and investigation of a corruption offense, if this act was committed by a person with whom an agreement on non-disclosure of the said information was concluded, –
shall be punishable by a fine of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or by corrective labor in the same amount, or by community service for up to eight hundred hours, or by restraint of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed in the interests of criminal group, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 974. Original section/article: 424. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 03.01.2023 № 188-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 975. Original section/article: 425. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Illegal action in relation of property, subjected to inventory or arrest or subject to confiscation
1. Embezzlement, assignment, concealment or illegal transfer of property, subjected to inventory, arrest or to which the restriction in disposition is imposed, committed by person, to whom this property is entrusted, as well as implementation of bank operations with monetary means (deposits) by employees of credit organization, on which the arrest is imposed or on which the debit operations are suspended, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Concealment or appropriation of property, subject to confiscation under sentence or court decision, as well as other evasion of sentence or court decision, entered into legal force on imposition of confiscation of property – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
3. The act, provided for by part one of this article, which is committed:
1) by a group of persons by previous concert; 
2) repeatedly – 
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for a period of up to three years.
4. The acts, provided for by parts one or two of this article, committed on a large scale -
shall be punished with restriction of liberty for a term of two to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property.
5. The acts, provided for by parts one, two, three or four of this article, if they are committed:
1) by a criminal group;
2) on an especially large scale –
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of seven to twelve years, with confiscation of property.
Footnote.

Section 976. Original section/article: 425. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 977. Original section/article: 426. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Escape from the places of detention, arrest or custody
1. Escape from the places of detention, arrest or custody, committed by person, serving a sentence or being in preliminary detention, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to three years.
2. The same action, committed:
1) by group of persons, group of persons on previous concert;
2) with the use of force, danger for life or health, or with the threat of use of such force;
3) with the use of weapons or items, used as weapons, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to six years.
Note. A person, voluntary returned in the place of detention or in custody within seven days from the moment of escape shall be released from criminal responsibility for the escape, if he (she) has not committed a new criminal infraction, and if the escape was not be linked with the actions, provided by paragraphs 2) and 3) of second parts of this Article.

Section 978. Original section/article: 427. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion from serving a sentence in the form of imprisonment
1. Failure to return to a penal (correctional) institution by a convicted person who has been granted short-term leave from the place of imprisonment after the expiration of the leave period, as well as a convicted person who enjoys the right to move without escort or who is under supervision, committed with the aim of evading further serving a sentence of imprisonment, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to two years.
2. Evasion of a person convicted of criminal offenses against the sexual inviolability of minors, as well as convicted persons recognized as in need of treatment for mental, behavioral disorders (diseases) associated with the use of psychoactive substances, from applying compulsory medical measures to them, -
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to one year.
Footnote.

Section 979. Original section/article: 427. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 09.04.2016 № 501-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 07.07.2020 № 361-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 980. Original section/article: 428. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disobedience to lawful demands of the administration of penal (penitentiary) institutions 
Footnote. The title of

Section 981. Original section/article: 428. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Malicious disobedience of lawful demands of the administration of penal (penitentiary) institutions by a person serving a sentence in places of deprivation of liberty, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to three years.
2. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
3. Organizing group disobedience to the lawful demands of the administration of penal (penitentiary) institutions, as well as participating in group disobedience, manifested in deliberately causing oneself harm with the aim of violating the established order (regime) of serving a sentence, or participation in group disobedience involving the use of violence or resulting in serious consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 982. Original section/article: 428. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 983. Original section/article: 428-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deliberate destruction or damage to the video surveillance system, as well as its components in institutions of the penal (penitentiary) system, pre-trial detention facilities, temporary detention facilities 
1. Deliberate destruction or damage to the video surveillance system, as well as its components in institutions of the penal (penitentiary) system, pre-trial detention facilities, temporary detention facilities for the purpose of violating the established procedure for serving a sentence or the detention regime –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term up to two years.
2. Deliberate destruction or damage to the video surveillance system, as well as its components in institutions of the penal (penitentiary) system, pre-trial detention centers, temporary detention centers, as well as deliberate destruction of records made by means of the video surveillance system, committed by a person using his official position, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of two to five years.
3. Acts envisaged by parts one or two of this article, committed by a group of persons, by a group of persons by prior agreement, – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of five to seven years.
Footnote. Chapter 17 is supplemented with

Section 984. Original section/article: 428-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.05.2024 № 82-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 985. Original section/article: 429. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Threat of violence against an employee of an institution ensuring isolation from society, or against his or her close relatives, or an attempt on their health or life 
Footnote. The title of

Section 986. Original section/article: 429. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).
1. Threat of violence against an employee of an institution ensuring isolation from society, or against his or her spouse or close relatives, in connection with the performance of his or her official duties –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two or five years.
2. Use of force, not danger for life or health, to the persons, specified in the first part of this Article, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
3. The actions, provided by first and second parts of this Article, committed by group of persons on previous concert or with the use of force, danger for life or health, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to ten years.
4. Attempt on the life of an employee of an institution ensuring isolation from society, or of his or her spouse or close relatives, in connection with the performance of his or her official duties, as well as against a convicted person for the purpose of obstructing his or her correction or out of revenge for assistance rendered to the administration of the institution –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 987. Original section/article: 429. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 988. Original section/article: 430. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-execution of sentence, court decision or other judicial act or executive document
1. Non-execution of sentence, court decision or other judicial act or executive document more than six months, as well as interfering with their execution – 
shall be punished by community services for a term of up to eight hundred hours or by restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. The same actions, committed by person with the use of his (her) official position, - 
shall be punished by community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours or by restriction of liberty for a term of three to five years, or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, on which the sum of recovery exceeds ten thousand monthly calculation indices, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the moment of commission of a crime, as well as interfering with their execution – 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of up to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
Note. An imprisonment shall not be imposed to the person, committed a crime, provided by third part of this Article and discharged all the sum of indebtedness before imposition of sentence.
4. Illegal alienation, encumbrance of property confiscated by a court decision or verdict (resolution), as well as property converted into state income, or property seized in cases related to the return of illegally acquired assets to the state, committed in order to evade the execution of judicial acts, - 
shall be punishable by restriction of liberty for a period up to six years or imprisonment for the same period.
Footnote.

Section 989. Original section/article: 430. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 12.07.2023 № 23-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 990. Original section/article: 431. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion from administrative supervision, established by court for persons, released from the places of detention
Evasion from administrative supervision, established by court for persons, released from the places of detention, consisting in unauthorized leaving of the place residence by supervised or non-arrival of supervised during five days excluding weekends and holidays to the chosen place of residence after release form places of detention, -
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to four hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to one year, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 991. Original section/article: 431. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 992. Original section/article: 432. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Concealment of crime
The concealment of a corruption, grave or especially grave crime or crime against the sexual inviolability of a minor, which was not promised before, -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Note. A person shall not subject to criminal responsibility for previously unpledged concealment of a crime, committed by his (her) husband (wife) or close relatives.
Footnote.

Section 993. Original section/article: 432. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 994. Original section/article: 433. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Concealment of criminal infraction
1. Intentional concealment of criminal offence of little or average gravity crime from registration, committed by authorized civil servant by false pretenses, persuasion, threat or other illegal actions in relation of a person, that filed an application or report on conclusively prepared or committed criminal infraction, or by destruction or concealment of the application of specified person by any other method, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to six hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to two years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to three years.
2. The same action, entailed concealment of grievous crime, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to one thousand two hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to five years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article:
1) entailed concealment of especially grave crime or grave consequences;
2) committed by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for the term of three to seven years or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed by civil servant, holding responsible state position, or by head of the authorized state body or by order of these persons, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 995. Original section/article: 433. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 996. Original section/article: 434. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure to report crime
A failure to report a reliably known upcoming or committed serious crime against the sexual inviolability of a minor, an especially serious crime or a reliably known upcoming act of terrorism -
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to six thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to six years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Note. Husband (wife) or close relative of person, committed a crime, as well as the ministers of church shall not subject to the criminal responsibility under this Article, for failure to report on the crimes, committed by persons, entrusted to them during confession.
Footnote.

Section 997. Original section/article: 434. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 292-VІ of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2).

Section 998. Original section/article: 435. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with legal activity of lawyers and other persons on protection of rights, freedoms and legal interests of person and citizen, as well as rendering of legal assistance to the individuals and legal entities
1. Obstruction of the lawful activities of lawyers and other persons in the protection of the rights, freedoms, and lawful interests of individuals and citizens in criminal proceedings, as well as the provision of legal assistance to individuals and legal entities, or other violations of the autonomy and independence of such activities–
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to eight hundred hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same acts committed by a person using their official position, as well as with the use of violence or the threat of its use against a lawyer or their relatives, or with damage to or destruction of their property, –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to three thousand monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or involvement in community service for a term of up to one thousand hours, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with or without the deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activities for up to five years.
Footnote.

Section 999. Original section/article: 435. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 292-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (the enforcement procedure is in Art.2); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1000. Original section/article: 436. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Interfering with the citizen to perform duties of jury member
Interfering with the citizen to perform duties of jury member by civil servant – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or community services for a term of up to eighty hours, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
Footnote.

Section 1001. Original section/article: 436. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
Chapter 18. MILITARY CRIMINAL INFRACTIONS

Section 1002. Original section/article: 437. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Insubordination or other non- execution of the order 
1. insubordination, that is, refusal to execute the order of the head, as well as other intentional non- execution of the order of the head, given in the established procedure, causing significant harm to the interests of the service, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and twenty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to thirty days.
2. The same actions, committed by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, as well as entailing grave consequences, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years.
3. Actions, provided by paragraphs one and two of this Article, committed by a criminal group in a combat situation or in the conditions of emergency state, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to fifteen years, and under aggravating circumstances – from ten to twenty years or life deprivation of liberty.
4. Actions, provided by parts one or two of this Article, committed in time of war, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment.
5. Non-execution of the order due to negligent or dishonest attitude to the service, entailing grave consequences, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
6. An action, provided by part five of this Article, committed in time of war, in a combat situation or in conditions of emergency state, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1003. Original section/article: 437. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1004. Original section/article: 438. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Resistance to the head or compulsion him (her) to violation of official obligations
1. Resistance to the head, as well as other person, performing the obligations of military service, imposed on him (her), or compulsion him (her) to violation of these obligations, linked with the force or a threat of its use, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
1-1. The same acts, committed with the infliction of moderate harm to health, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of up to four years.
2. The acts provided for in parts one or 1-1 of this article, committed:
1) by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert;
2) with the use of weapons or special means;
3) with the infliction of grievous harm to health, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to ten years.
3. The acts provided for in parts one, 1-1, or two of this article, committed by a criminal group, in a combat situation or under conditions of a state of emergency, as well as those resulting in the death of a person, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
4. The acts provided for in parts one, 1-1, two, or three of this article, committed in wartime, shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of up to 20 years, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 1005. Original section/article: 438. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1006. Original section/article: 439. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violent actions in relation of the head
1. Bodily blows, infliction of bodily harm to the health, or use of other force in relation of the head, committed during performing him (her) the obligations of military service or in connection with performance of these obligations, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to one years, or imprisonment for the same term.
1-1. The same acts committed with the infliction of moderate harm to health, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for up to four years.
2. The acts provided for in parts one or 1-1 of this article, committed:
1) by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert;
2) with the use of weapons;
3) с causing serious harm to health, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to ten years.
3. The acts provided for in parts one, 1-1, or two of this article, committed by a criminal group, in a combat situation or under conditions of a state of emergency, as well as those resulting in the death of a person, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
4. The acts provided for in parts one, two, 2-1, or three of this article, committed by a criminal group or resulting in the death of a person or other serious consequences, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of fifteen to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Footnote.

Section 1007. Original section/article: 439. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1008. Original section/article: 440. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of charter rules of relationship between military servants in the absence between them subordination relations
1. Violation of charter rules of relationship between military servants in the absence between them subordination relations, consisting in bodily blows, infliction of bodily harm to the health or other force or linked with breach of honour and dignity or abuse over injured person, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to forty days.
2. The same action, committed repeatedly,- 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2-1. The act provided for in parts one or two of this article, committed with the infliction of moderate bodily harm, – 
shall be punished by a fine of up to five hundred monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The act provided for in parts one, two or 2-1 of this article, committed:
1) in relation of two or more persons;
2) by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert;
3) with the use of weapons or special means;
4) causing serious bodily harm, -
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to eight years.
4. Acts provided for in parts one, two, 2-1, or three of this article, committed by a criminal group or resulting in the death of a person or other serious consequences, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of eight to twelve years.
Footnote.

Section 1009. Original section/article: 440. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1010. Original section/article: 441. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service 
1. Unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service, as well as non-appearance in time without valid reasons for service, committed in peacetime, if unwarranted absence lasted more than one month, –
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or deprivation of liberty for the same term.
2. Unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service, committed with a weapon entrusted in the service, or by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, if unwarranted absence lasted more than one day, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years.
3. Unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service, committed in a combat situation or in conditions of emergency state, if unwarranted absence lasted more than one day, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to ten years.
4. Unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service in time of war regardless of the length –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of ten to fifteen years.
Note. A military man, committed an action, provided for in the parts one, two or three of this Article may be released from criminal responsibility, if the action was the result of a confluence of grave and other circumstances.
Footnote.

Section 1011. Original section/article: 441. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 07.11.2014 № 248-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015).

Section 1012. Original section/article: 442. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Desertion
1. Desertion, in other words unwarranted leaving of unit or place of service for the purposes of evasion of military service, as well as failure to appear for service with the same purpose, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
2. Desertion with weapon, entrusted by service, as well as desertion, committed by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to seven years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in in the military situation or conditions of emergency situation, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Note. A military servant, committed desertion, provided by first or second parts of this Article may be released by court from criminal responsibility, if desertion is resulted from a set of heavy circumstances.
Footnote.

Section 1013. Original section/article: 442. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1014. Original section/article: 443. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Evasion or refusal of serving military service
1. Evasion of military servant from execution of duties of military service by simulation of the disease or infliction yourself any damage (self-mutilation) or other harm to health or forgery of documents, or other fraud, as well as refusal of serving military service – 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for up to fifty days.
2. The same acts committed in a combat situation or a state of emergency, or in wartime, –
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
3. Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
Footnote.

Section 1015. Original section/article: 443. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1016. Original section/article: 444. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of serving of combat duty
1. Violation of rules of serving of combat duty (combat service) on early detection and holding off a sudden attack against the Republic of Kazakhstan or on ensuring its safety, if this action is entailed or may entail infliction substantial harm to the interests of the state, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to ten years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in the military situation or in war time, - 
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment.
Note. A military servant, committed an action, provided by first part of this Article for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released by court from criminal responsibility.
Footnote.

Section 1017. Original section/article: 444. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication)

Section 1018. Original section/article: 445. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of protection of the State boundary of the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Violation of rules of protection of the State boundary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in the checkpoints, by person, included in the composition of border patrol unit or execution other obligations on protection of the State boundary, if this action is entailed substantial harm to the interests of security of the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or corrective labor of the same amount, or restriction of liberty for a term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed by group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of up to seven years.
Note. A military servant, committed an action, provided by first part of this Article, for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released from criminal responsibility.
Footnote.

Section 1019. Original section/article: 445. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1020. Original section/article: 446. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of charter rules of serving of guard (watch keeping) service 
1. Violation of charter rules of serving of guard (watch keeping) service by person, including in the composition of guard (watch), if this action is entailed infliction of harm to the objects, protected by the guard (watch) or occurrence of other harmful consequences, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of two to seven years.
Note. A military servant, committed an action, provided by first part of this Article, for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released from criminal responsibility.

Section 1021. Original section/article: 447. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of charter rules of serving of internal service or patrol in the garrison 
1. Violation of charter rules of serving of internal service by person, including in the daily detail of unit (except for the guard and watch), as well as violation of charter rules of patrol in the garrison and orders and instructions, issued in the development of these rules by person, including in the composition of patrol detail, if they are entailed the heavy consequences, the warning of which is included in the obligation of this person, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for up to fifty days.
2. The same actions, entailed the grave consequences or committed by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
Note. A military servant, committed the actions, provided by first part of this Article, for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released from criminal responsibility.
Footnote.

Section 1022. Original section/article: 447. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1023. Original section/article: 448. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of service of control service
1. Violation of rules of service of control service to the military servants, exercising control functions, if this action is inflicted substantial harm to the rights or legal interests of citizens or organizations or legally protected interests of society or the state, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
Note. A military servant, committed an action, provided by first part of this Article, for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released from criminal responsibility.
Footnote.

Section 1024. Original section/article: 448. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1025. Original section/article: 449. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of serving of service on protection of public order and ensuring of public security
1. Violation of rules of serving of service by person, including in the composition of military detail on protection of public order and ensuring of public security, if this action is entailed substantial harm to the rights and legal interests of citizens or organizations, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to eighty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to twenty days.
2. The same action, entailing grave consequences or committed by a group of persons or a group of persons by prior agreement, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years.
3. Actions, provided for in parts one and two of this Article, committed in conditions of emergency state, –
shall be punished by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to seven years.
Footnote.

Section 1026. Original section/article: 449. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1027. Original section/article: 450. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abuse of authority
1. Abuse of powers or official position by a superior or official contrary to the interests of the service for the purpose of obtaining benefits and advantages for themselves or other persons or organizations, or causing harm to other persons or organizations, if this has resulted in significant harm, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to four years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to seven years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in the military situation, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to fifteen years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
Footnote.

Section 1028. Original section/article: 450. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1029. Original section/article: 451. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Exceeding authority
1. Abuse of powers or official authority, i.e., actions taken by a superior or official that clearly exceed their rights and powers, resulting in significant harm, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to five thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed:
1) with the use of weapons or special means;
2) for the purposes of deriving profits and advantages for himself (herself) or other persons or organizations, or infliction of harm to other persons or organizations, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to seven years, and in the cases, provided by paragraph 2), with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in the military situation, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to fifteen years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
Footnote.

Section 1030. Original section/article: 451. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1031. Original section/article: 452. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Failure to use authority
1. Inaction by authorities, i.e., failure by a manager or official to perform their official duties in order to obtain benefits and advantages for themselves or other persons or organizations, or to cause harm to other persons or organizations, if this resulted in significant harm, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of four to eight years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in the military situation, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years with confiscation of property, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for life.
Footnote.

Section 1032. Original section/article: 452. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1033. Original section/article: 452-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Inaction in service of a senior official 
Inaction in service of a senior official, consisting in failure to take measures within the scope of his authority to prevent an attack on citizens that directly threatens their lives, an armed seizure of buildings, destruction of property of citizens or organizations in a generally dangerous way, if this act was committed under a state of emergency conditions or entailed grave consequences, –
shall be punishable by restraint of liberty for a term of up to seven years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote. Chapter 18 shall be supplemented by

Section 1034. Original section/article: 452-1. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2022 № 136-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1035. Original section/article: 453. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Habitual negligence in office
1. Habitual negligence of the head or civil servant in office, inflicted substantial harm,- shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to one years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time or in the military situation, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of three to ten years.
Note. A military servant, committed an action, provided by first part of this Article, for the first time, upon mitigating circumstances may be released from criminal responsibility.

Section 1036. Original section/article: 454. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abandonment of a warship in distress 
1. Abandonment of a warship in distress by commander, not completed his (her) official duties, as well as by person from the composition of ship's crew without proper order from the commander – shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2.The same action, committed in war time or in the military situation, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.

Section 1037. Original section/article: 455. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Surrender or leaving of means of warfare to the enemy
Surrender to the enemy by a commander of the military forces entrusted to him, as well as the abandonment to the enemy of fortifications, military or combat equipment, and other means of warfare not justified by the combat situation, if such actions were not committed with the purpose of aiding the enemy, –
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of ten to twenty years or life imprisonment with or without deprivation of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 1038. Original section/article: 455. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 11.07.2017 № 91-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 29.12.2021 № 89-VII (effective ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1039. Original section/article: 456. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Voluntary surrender into captivity
Voluntary surrender into captivity due to white feather or cowardice – 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.

Section 1040. Original section/article: 457. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Looting
Stealing of things, being at the dead and wounded (looting), on the battlefield,- 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.

Section 1041. Original section/article: 458. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Disclosure of security information of military nature or loss of carriers of security information of military nature
1. Loss of carriers of security information of military nature, not containing the state secrets by negligence, by person to whom they were entrusted by service, if loss was a result of violation of established rules of handling with specified carriers, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. Disclosure of secret information of military nature, not containing the state secrets, by person, to whom they were entrusted or became known by service, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, entailed infliction of heavy damage or occurrence of other grave consequences, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
4. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed in military situation or conditions of emergency situation, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years.
5. The actions, provided by first, second or third parts of this Article, committed in war time, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years.
Footnote.

Section 1042. Original section/article: 458. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1043. Original section/article: 459. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Intentional destruction or damaging of military property
1. Intentional destruction or damage to weapons, vehicles, military equipment, or other military property, –
shall be punished by a fine of up to four thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor of the same amount, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for up to four years.
2. The same action, entailed the grave consequences or committed with the use of force or threat of its use or by group of persons or group of persons on previous concert, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of three to eight years.
3. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in military situation or conditions of emergency situation, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to twelve years.
4. The actions, provided by first or second parts of this Article, committed in war time, - shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of ten to twenty years.
Footnote.

Section 1044. Original section/article: 459. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1045. Original section/article: 460. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Negligent destruction or damaging of military property
The careless destruction or damage of weapons, vehicles, or military equipment, resulting in grave consequences, – 
shall be punished by a fine of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices, or correctional labor in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 1046. Original section/article: 460. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 249-VI as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1047. Original section/article: 461. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Loss of military property
Violation of the rules for the safekeeping of weapons or military equipment entrusted for official use, if this resulted in their loss, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
Footnote.

Section 1048. Original section/article: 461. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1049. Original section/article: 462. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of the rules for handling weapons, as well as substances and objects that pose a danger to others
Footnote. The title of

Section 1050. Original section/article: 462. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
1. Violation of the rules for handling weapons, radioactive materials, explosives, or other substances and objects that pose an increased danger to others, if this has resulted in the negligent causing of serious or moderate harm to human health, the destruction of military property, or other serious consequences, –
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to two thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term.
2. The same action, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1051. Original section/article: 462. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (effective sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 1052. Original section/article: 463. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of driving or operating of vehicles
1. Violation of rules of driving or operating of armed, special or transport vehicle, entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the heath of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to one hundred and sixty monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to forty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years.
2. The same action, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to three years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to three years.
3. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of up to five years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
4. An action, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1053. Original section/article: 463. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1054. Original section/article: 464. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of flight rules or rules for flight preparation 
1. Violation of the rules for flights or preparation for them, as well as violation of the rules for the operation of military aircraft, resulting in the negligent causing of serious or moderate harm to human health, or an accident or breakdown of military or combat equipment, or a prolonged reduction in the combat readiness and combat capability of military units and subunits, –
shall be punished with a fine worth up to two hundred monthly calculation indices, or with corrective labor in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days.
2. The same acts that entailed the death of a person through negligence -
shall be punished with restriction of liberty for a term of up to four years or imprisonment for the same term, with or without the deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities for a term of up to three years.
3. The acts, provided for by part one of this article, which entailed the death of two or more persons through negligence -
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of four to ten years, with or without the deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities for a term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1055. Original section/article: 464. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is as amended by Law № 249-VI of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of 19.04.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16.07.2025 № 210-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1056. Original section/article: 465. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Violation of rules of ship navigation
Violation of rules of run or operation of warships, entailed the death of person or other grave consequences by negligence, - 
shall be punished by restriction of liberty for a term of up to seven years or by deprivation of liberty for the same term, with or without deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1057. Original section/article: 465. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 1058. Original section/article: 466. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Driving of vehicles, ship navigation, control of military aircraft by person in the state of alcoholic, narcotic or toxic intoxication, transmission driving or control or access to driving or control of military equipment of such person
1. Driving of armed, special or transport vehicle or run of warships, or control of military aircraft by person, being in the state of alcoholic, narcotic or toxic intoxication, or transmission driving or control of specified military equipment to such person, as well as access to driving or control of specified military equipment of such person, committed by civil servant, - 
shall be punished by a fine in the amount of up to two hundred monthly calculation indices or corrective labors in the same amount, or arrest for a term of up to fifty days, with deprivation of the right to hold certain positions or engage in certain activity for a term of up to two years.
2. The same actions, entailed infliction of average gravity harm to the health of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to one thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to two years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to five years.
3. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed infliction of grievous harm to the health by negligence, - 
shall be punished by the fine in the amount of up to three thousand monthly calculation indices or correctional works in the same amount, or restriction of liberty for the term of up to five years, or imprisonment for the same term, with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to six years.
4. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of person by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of five to ten years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to seven years.
5. The actions, provided by first part of this Article, entailed the death of two or more persons by negligence, - 
shall be punished by imprisonment for the term of seven to twelve years with deprivation of the right to occupy determined posts or to engage in a determined activity for the term of up to ten years.
Footnote.

Section 1059. Original section/article: 466. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.07.2018 № 180-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication). 
FINAL PROVISIONS

Section 1060. Original section/article: 467. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On entering of this Code into force and recognition of several legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan as considered to have lost force
1. This Code shall be enforced from the 1 st January 2015, with the exception of

Section 1061. Original section/article: 45. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, which shall be enforced from the 1 st January 2017, and

Section 1062. Original section/article: 48. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, which shall be enforced from the 1 st January 2016.
1-1. To suspend until January 1, 2027 the effect of

Section 1063. Original section/article: 45. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, establishing that its provisions shall apply to persons who have committed criminal offenses provided for in Articles 108-1 and 109-1 of this Code, and in respect of military personnel and in cases provided for by paragraph 1) of part six of

Section 1064. Original section/article: 41. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, paragraph 1) of part five of

Section 1065. Original section/article: 42. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
and paragraph 1) of part 2-1 of

Section 1066. Original section/article: 43. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, from January 1, 2017, and in respect of persons to whom deportation from the Republic of Kazakhstan of a foreigner or stateless person is appointed as an additional type of punishment - from January 1, 2019.
2. Provisions, vested in

Section 1067. Original section/article: 287. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code shall be distributed to the persons, having permissions of bodies of internal affairs for storage and bearing of fire tuneless, gas weapons with possibility of shooting by cartridge of traumatic action, dated 1 January, 2016.
3. Shall be considered to have lost force from the date of entry into force of this Code:
1) Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16 July 1997 (Bulletin of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 1997, № 15-16,

Section 1068. Original section/article: 140. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
; 2008, № 12, p. 48; № 13-14,

Section 1069. Original section/article: 63. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
; № 15-16, Articles 71, 73, 75; № 17,

Section 1070. Original section/article: 121. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, 122, 125, 127, 128, 130; 2010 G., № 1-2,

Section 1071. Original section/article: 30. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
; № 5, Articles 35, 36; № 10,

Section 1072. Original section/article: 77. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
; № 12, Article. 84; 2013, № 1,

Section 1073. Original section/article: 51. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
, no longer valid from the 1 st January 2016.
Thus for the period till January 1, 2016 to state

Section 1074. Original section/article: 51. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in the following edition:
"

Section 1075. Original section/article: 51. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Confiscation of property
1. Confiscation of property is compulsory gratuitous seizure of all or part of the property belonging to the convicted person, as well as the property being the instrument or means of committing a crime, into the property of the state.
For commission of corruption crimes and crimes committed as part of an organized group, criminal society (criminal organization), transnational organized group, transnational criminal society (transnational criminal organization) or a stable armed group (gang), except the property of the convicted person, the property obtained by criminal means or purchased with the funds, obtained by criminal means, transferred by the convicted to the property of other persons, shall be subject to confiscation.
For commission of crimes, provided for in

Section 1076. Original section/article: 193. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of this Code, except the property of the convicted, the property obtained by criminal means or purchased with the funds, obtained by criminal means, transferred by the convicted to the property of others, shall be subject to confiscation.
For commission of terroristic crimes, except the property of the convicted person, the property obtained by criminal means, used or intended for the use of financing terroristic activity shall be subject to confiscation . 
2. Confiscation of property shall be established for the crimes, committed for mercenary motives and may be imposed only in the cases, provided for by the relevant Articles of the Special part of this Code.
3. The property, necessary for the convicted person or the persons dependent on him/her, according to the list provided for by criminal-executive legislation, shall not be subject to confiscation.
Note. Money and other property, legalized in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, repatriates and persons having a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the property legalization by them", shall not be subject to confiscation, if they are obtained as a result of a criminal infraction under which the same Law provides for exemption from criminal responsibility.
At the same time, the provisions of the Note to this Article shall not be applied to judicial acts, that entered into force as of September 1, 2014, and shall not be applied to the legalized property and money that were not subject to legalization.
2) The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 16 July, 1997 “On enforcement of Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan” (Bulletin of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 1997, № 15-16,

Section 1077. Original section/article: 467. Source: Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 13.11.2015 № 400-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 18.04.2017 № 58-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 217-VI as of 21.01.2019 (shall be enforced ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 290-VІ as of 27.12.2019 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2020); dated 27.12.2021 № 88-VII (effective from 01.01.2022); dated 15.04.2024 № 72-VIII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication). 
The President 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
N.Nazarbayev 
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
