Kazakhstan source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan
Category: Immigration and visas
Source URL: https://egov.kz/cms/en/articles/for_foreigners/vid_na_jitelstvo?mobile=no
Note: Official eGov practical guidance on residence permit for foreigners.

Section 1. Original section/article: 49. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 'On Population Migration' (hereinafter - 'Law').
4. A statement of no criminal record in the country of citizenship and/or permanent residence issued by a competent authority of a relevant country (except for individuals with refugee status in the Republic of Kazakhstan and ethnic Kazakh citizens of the People's Republic of China, unless otherwise provided by international treaties), validity period not exceeding 180 calendar days. 
5. Notarized consent of a child aged 14 to 18 years for permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. A notarized contract with an individual or legal entity (for service recipients who can confirm their solvency during their stay in the Republic of Kazakhstan), or a notarized application from an individual or legal entity to provide an applicant with accommodation and permanent registration for at least 180 calendar days.
7.Certificate of medical examination of a foreigner on the absence of diseases, whereas presence of the such prohibits the entry of foreigners and stateless persons into the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with the Order of the Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of September 30, 2011 No. 664 "On approval of the list of diseases, the presence of which prohibits the entry of foreigners and stateless persons into the Republic of Kazakhstan" (medical certificate form 028/y), (registered in the Register of State Registration of Laws and Regulations under No. 7274).
8. One photo (35x45 mm).
9. A receipt confirming payment of national duty.
10. Persons who meet the requirements of the list of professions for which a simplified procedure for obtaining a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan has been established and approved by Order of the Minister of Labour and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated February 20, 2023, No. 49 'Approval of the list of required professions for foreigners to obtain permanent residence permits in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the rules for its formation' (registered in the Register of State Registration of Regulatory Legal Acts under No. 31938) - the petition from a government body in the relevant industry, indicating the group of occupations in the National Classifier of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - 'NC'), and confirming compliance with the NC requirements (profession, level of specialization, skills, diploma, work experience in the specialisation and qualification level).
11. A certificate of fingerprinting for a foreigner or stateless person, issued in accordance with the Rules for Fingerprint and Genomic Registration approved by Order No. 730 of the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated September 30, 2024 'On certain issues of fingerprint and genomic registration in the Republic of Kazakhstan' (registered in the Register of State Registration of Regulatory Legal Acts under No. 35161).
The validity period of the documents specified in subclauses 3), 4), 7) is not more than 180 calendar days.
A service recipient, who applied for a citizenship of another state through diplomatic missions and consular offices of other countries to the Republic of Kazakhstan and has permanent registration in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, submits the documents specified in the subclauses 1), 2), 8), 9).
A service recipient who has not reached the age of eighteen, who arrived together with parents, or with one of the parents, or whose legal representative (parent, guardian, trustee) is a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan or a foreigner or a stateless person permanently residing in the Republic of Kazakhstan, provides the documents specified in subclauses 1), 2), 5), 6), 8), 9) along with a copy and an original copy (for verification) of a birth certificate or other identity document; a notarized statement of consent from another parent (both parents) , in case of his/her (their) residence outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Documents drawn up in a foreign language are subject to translation into the Kazakh or Russian language. The accuracy of the translation from one language to another is attested by a notary public pursuant to

Section 2. Original section/article: 80. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Notaries".
In accordance with Clause 60 of the Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of April 25, 2016 No. 240 "On approval of the Consular Charter of the Republic of Kazakhstan", documents and acts drawn up with the participation of foreign authorities or emanating from these authorities are accepted for consideration with legalization only, unless otherwise provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan or an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In case if an application for a clearence was successfully approved, a foreigner is subject to registration at a permanent place of residence.
What do I need to get a residence permit? 
Pursuant to the Rules for registration, issuance, re-issuance, submission, withdrawal and destruction of a foreigner's residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, a residence permit is issued for a period of 10 years, i.e. for a validity term of a foreigner`s passport. Applications for validity extension of an existing permit or issuance of a new document for the right of residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan should be submitted by foreigners to the internal affairs bodies at their place of residence no later than 1 month prior to expiration of validity and in case of loss, no later than three days.
While registration of a new residence permit a foreigner doesn't loose his status of permanently residing in Kazakhstan 
Foreign citizens staying on the territory of the country based on the "permanent residence" visa category (ethnic Kazakhs regardless of the category of the visa issued to them) can obtain a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In order to obtain a residence permit for a foreigner in the Republic of Kazakhstan, foreigners should personally submit the following documents to an authorized government agency and receive a full-time residence clearance in the Republic of Kazakhstan:
document on payment of state fee.
two photograph of the size of 3.5 x 4.5 centimeters.
valid national passport.
When filling-in a residence permit for a foreigner in the Republic of Kazakhstan, surname, name, patronymic (if any) and other data is recorded as in foreign passports.
A foreigner's residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan is issued to foreigners permanently residing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the age of sixteen.
From the moment of documents submission and issuance of counterfoil to an applicant prior to the issuance of a residence permit/a certificate of a stateless person: 17 calendar days. At the request of an applicant, the service can be delivered on a fast-track basis up to 7 working days from the date of registration.
The amount of national duty for the issuance of a stateless person certificate is 400% of the monthly calculation index established on the day of payment of national duty. When applying for a residence permit of a foreigner in the Republic of Kazakhstan: 20% of the monthly calculation index established on the day of payment of national duty. The national duty is paid through the banking institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which issue a document (receipt) confirming the amount and date of payment.
What are the cases when a full-time residence clearance is not issued? 
Issuance of a full-time residence clearance in the Republic of Kazakhstan is rejected/previously issued clearence is canceled for foreigners and stateless persons:
In accordance with

Section 3. Original section/article: 19-1. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Services":
1) in case of establishing the unreliability of the documents submitted by a service recipient for receiving a public service, and (or) the data (information) contained therein;
2) inconsistency of a service recipient and (or) the submitted materials, data and information necessary for the provision of public services to the Rules;
3) negative response of an authorized government agency to the request for approval, which is required for the provision of public services, as well as a negative conclusion of an examination, research or verification;
In accordance with

Section 4. Original section/article: 49. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 'On Population Migration', a permanent residence permit will not be issued, or a previously issued permit will be revoked, for the following service recipients:
1) illegally arrived, as well as prosecuted for committing crimes under the laws of the countries from which they come;
2) released from prisons, whose permanent place of residence before conviction was outside the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) who have committed crimes against humanity;
4) who have committed a crime against the sexual integrity of a minor;
5) who have not provided proof of solvency in the manner and amounts determined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, except for ethnic Kazakhs; former compatriots who were born in, or previously held citizenship of, the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic or the Republic of Kazakhstan; and persons entitled to acquire Kazakh citizenship in a simplified manner under international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This also applies to their family members, as well as to foreigners with sought-after professions, the list of which is approved by the authorised body on migration issues;
6) repeatedly violated the legislation on the legal status of foreigners in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) inciting interethnic, interfaith and religious enmity;
8) whose actions are aimed at forcibly changing the constitutional order;
9) opposing the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, calling for violation of unity and integrity of its territory;
10) having an outstanding criminal record for a crime;
11) if the national security authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan have information suggesting that they are involved in extremist or terrorist activities, or that they are involved with an organization recognized as extremist or terrorist in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
12) who submitted forged documents or reported knowingly false information about themselves when applying for a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan or without a valid reason did not submit the necessary documents within the time limits established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13) who have not passed fingerprint registration in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
14) expelled within five years from the Republic of Kazakhstan by the time of issuance of a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
15) if it is necessary to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other persons;
16) who have received a permanent residence permit and have resided in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for fewer than 183 calendar days within any consecutive 12-month period from the date of issuance of the permit, except in cases provided for in

Section 5. Original section/article: 38. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 'On Citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan';
17) who have received a permanent residence permit based on the list of required professions approved by the authorized body on population migration and who do not work in the specified profession within any consecutive twelve-month period of one hundred and eighty-three calendar days from the date of issuance of the permanent residence permit;
18) who have entered into a marriage with citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which served as the basis for obtaining a residence permit, if this marriage is declared invalid by a court decision that has entered into legal force;
19) during the year brought to administrative responsibility for administrative offenses relating to population migration, tax and labour legislation in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
20) posing a threat to national security interests;
21) having diseases that are a contraindication for entry into the Republic of Kazakhstan;
22) if they have previously lost the citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the grounds set out in subparagraph 8) of the first part of

Section 6. Original section/article: 21. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan";
23) if they were previously deprived of the citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the grounds set out in

Section 7. Original section/article: 20-1. Source: How to get residence permit in Kazakhstan.
of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan".
In relation to ethnic Kazakhs and their family members, stateless persons recognized as such due to the lack of identity documents or on the basis of a 1974 USSR passport and women subject to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Accession of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Convention on the Nationality of Married Women", subparagraphs 16) and 19) do not apply.
Subparagraph 21 does not apply to incapacitated persons.
Refusal to issue a residence permit or a certificate of a stateless person may be appealed in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
External resources
E-licensing 
Taxpayer cabinet 
Judicial office 
Debtor-creditor 
Activity calendar 
Anti-corruption measures 
State agencies of RK 
Constitution of the RK 
National symbols of the RK 
Address of the President of the RK 
State agencies of RK 
Anti-corruption measures 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Government for citizens
Reserve queue 
Contacts 
Services list 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
© Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Page up 
× 
Notification
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
For further working with egov.kz, you need to install the certificate issued by National Certification Authority of the Republic of Kazakhstan .
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
Close 
Help 
About Portal 
Personal account Help 
Total visitors per month:
Total visitors for yesterday:
Now on the portal:
URL:
Error:
Comment:
Send 
Cancel 
Спасибо, информация об ошибке принята.
Извините, в данный момент информация об ошибке не может быть обработана.
Попробуйте позже. 
OK 
CHAT_DOMAIN = 'https://kenes.1414.kz';
(function (d, s, id) {
var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
js = d.createElement(s);
js.id = id;
js.src = CHAT_DOMAIN + "/static/js/local_loader.js";
fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
})(document, 'script', 'chatbotscript');
