Kazakhstan source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity
Category: Tourism and travel complaints
Source URL: https://adilet.zan.kz/eng/docs/Z010000211_
Note: Tourism services, tour operators, guides, tourist fee and tourist rights context.

Section 1. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).
Footnote. Through the whole text the words " (of guide-translators) ", "(guide-translators) ", " (of the guide-translator) ", " (by the guide-translator) ", "(guide-translator) " excluded by the Law of the RK dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).
This Law determines legal, economic, social, organizational bases of touristic activity as one of the branches of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chapter 1. General provisions

Section 2. Original section/article: 1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Basic definitions used in this Law
The following basic definitions are used in this Law:
1) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
1-1) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
2) guide – an individual carrying out activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan as an individual entrepreneur or an employee, professionally trained for provision of informational and (or) organizational services to tourists;
2-1) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
2-2) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
2-3) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) Excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3-1) touristic operator activity in the field of inbound tourism – entrepreneurial activity of individuals or legal entities licensed for the given type of activity, in the formation of a tourist product, its promotion and sale to tourists who do not permanently reside in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including through touristic agents;
3-2) insurance certificate – a document certifying the existence of valid insurance coverage in respect of the insured and containing information on the conditions of insurance coverage for insurance risks accepted for insurance, issued by the insurer in support of the concluded insurance contract (insurance policy);
4) tour – complex of touristic services including travels on special itinerary within specified terms;
5) tourism – temporary stay of a tourist on a trip, not associated with the change of the permanent place of residence;
5-1) tourism infrastructure – a set of organizations, a complex of facilities and networks for industrial, social and recreational purposes, intended for the functioning of the tourism sector and meeting the needs of a tourist;
6) tourism instructor – professionally prepared individual, carrying out activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan as an individual entrepreneur or an employee, having relevant qualification and experience of passing of tour itinerary;
7) tourist – individual, visiting the country (place) of temporary stay on period from twenty-four hours until one year and carrying out no less than one overnight stop in it in healthful, cognitive, professional and business, sportive, religious and other purpose without performing paid activity;
7-1) touristification map – territories of republican and regional levels which are a tourist attraction;
8) exclude by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiration of six months after the date of its first official publication); 
8-1) touristic agent (hereinafter referred to as the tour agent) – an individual or legal person carrying out travel agency activities;
9) touristic agency activity (hereinafter referred to as the travel agency activity) –entrepreneurial activity of individuals and (or) legal entities on progression and realization of tourist product formed by tour operator of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of an agency agreement for implementation of a tourist product, without the right to add additional services, as well as activities on provision tourists with services, which are not a tourist product;
10) touristic voucher – document confirming a right of tourist on services included in structure of tour and fact of their payment;
11) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
11-1) touristic code – a unique number assigned to a tourist by a tour operator in the field of outbound tourism, which guarantees the obligations of the tour operator in the framework of organized outbound tourism;
12) touristic activity - entrepreneurial activity of individuals and legal entities on provision of touristic services;
13) tourist services - services necessary to meet the needs of a tourist, provided during his trip and in connection with this trip (accommodation, transportation, meals, excursions, services of tourism instructors, guides), and other services provided by the contract for tourist services provided depending on the purpose of the trip, as well as services aimed at ensuring equal (barrier-free) access to tourism infrastructure for all tourists, including individuals with disabilities and people with limited mobility (inclusive tourism);
13-1) compensation of tourist services – reimbursement by the employer of the employee's expenses for tourist services provided in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Footnote.

Section 3. Original section/article: 1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
was amended with a subclause 13-1) in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced after the date of entry into force of the relevant amendments and additions to the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan” On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget” (Tax Code)). 
14) treaty on tourist services – agreement between person carrying out touristic activity and tourist on refundable rendering of touristic services;
15) persons, carrying out touristic activity – tour agents, tour operator, tourism instructors as well as guides (guide-interpreter), cicerones rendering touristic services independently;
16) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 269-V dated 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
17) tour itinerary – the route of the tourist to meet his needs, which is developed by the touristic operator and includes visiting objects of tourist activity with detailed regulation of such a visit (transport used, stopping places, objects of visit, accommodation places, medical care in emergency cases and other conditions);
18) state register of tour itineraries and pathways – document of record of our itineraries and pathways;
19) touristic operator activity (tour operator activities) – entrepreneurial activity of individuals and (or) legal entities having license for a given type of activity on formation, promotion and sale of tourist product in the field of inbound and domestic tourism to tourists, including through tour agents;
19-1) touristic operator (hereinafter referred to as the tour operator) – an individual or legal person carrying out tourism operator activities, tourist operator activities in the field of domestic, inbound or outbound tourism;
20) tourist product – a complex of all necessary touristic services sufficient to meet the needs of a tourist during a trip;
21) progression of touristic product – complex of measures (publicity, participation in particularized exhibitions and expositions, organization of touristic informational centers on realization of touristic production, publication and expansion of catalogs and booklet directed on rendering of touristic services;
22) touristic resources - natural and climatic, historical, social and cultural, healthful objects, including objects of touristic demonstration as well as other objects able to satisfy cultural needs of tourists support recovery and developments of their physical strength;
23) touristic market - circulation of commodities (works, services) and money in the scope of touristic activity;
24) touristic branch – branch of economy, basic scope of activity of which is rendering of touristic services, creation of touristic product, their progression and realization on internal and international markets;
25) emergency event with a tourist - non-return from travel of tourist, as well as event on special territory during travel occurred in the result of accidents, adversity or disaster which entailed or may entail tourist’s death or harm to his (her) health;
25-1) tour operator-charterer – a tour operator who has concluded a chartering (charter) agreement with an air carrier (charterer) on the transfer to its use of the entire capacity or part of the capacity of one aircraft (or several vessels) with a crew for one or more flights for carriage of passengers and baggage in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which regulates the use of the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan and aviation activities;
26) authorized body – central executive body carrying out functions of the state regulation in the scope of touristic activity;
26-1) tour operator activity in the field of outbound tourism – entrepreneurial activity of individuals or legal entities which have a license for the given type of activity, on the formation of a tourist product, its promotion and sale through tour agents to tourists, as well as the promotion and sale through tour agents to tourists of a tourist product formed by a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
26-2) tour operator activity in the field of inbound tourism – entrepreneurial activity of individuals or legal entities which have a license for the given type of activity, on the formation of a tourist product, its promotion and sale to tourists permanently residing in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including through tour agents;
27) excursionist – legal entity visiting touristic resources in cognitive purpose in the country (place) of temporary stay no more than twenty-four hours;
28) excursion – visit of touristic resources in cognitive purpose in the country (place) of temporary stay no more than twenty-four hours by individual;
29) excursion activity - entrepreneurial activity on organization of visiting of touristic resources in cognitive purpose in the country (place) of temporary stay which provide services on placement (overnight stop) of tourists and cover the period no more than twenty-four hours;
30) excursionist – an individual carrying out activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan as an individual entrepreneur or an employee, professionally trained to provide excursion services to tourists to familiarize with touristic attractions in the country (place) of temporary stay.
Footnote.

Section 4. Original section/article: 1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 5. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 461-IV dated 15.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012); dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 16.11.2015 № 406-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2017); dated 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 22.12.2016 № 28-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art. 2); dated 29.12.2022 № 174-VII (shall be enforced sixty calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 03.03.2025 № 166-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication)..

Section 6. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on touristic activity 
1. The legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on touristic activity shall be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and consist of Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this Law, other regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. If international treaty, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan establishes other rules, than those provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the rules of international treaty shall be applied with exception of cases when it follows from international treaty that issuance of the Law is required for its application.

Section 7. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Subjects and objects of touristic activity
1. The subjects of touristic activity shall include
1) tour operators;
2) tour agents;
3) guides, excursionists, tourism instructors operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs;
4) public associations in the field of touristic activity; 
5) an organization established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to develop domestic and inbound tourism;
6) operators of the touristic fee for foreigners.
2. Objects of touristic activity – natural objects and natural and climatic zones, sightseeing attractions, historical and social and cultural objects of demonstration and other objects able to satisfy tourist needs on a travel.
Footnote.

Section 8. Original section/article: 3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art. 2).

Section 9. Original section/article: 4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Touristic industry
1. Touristic industry – assembly of sources of placement of tourists, transport, objects of public catering, objects of cognitive, healthful, business, sportive and other assignment; organizations carrying out touristic activity as well as organizations providing excursion services and services of guides (guide-interpreters).
2. Types of services in touristic industry:
1) services on provision of tours;
2) services on provision of place of residence;
3) services on provision of nutrition;
4) informational, advertising services;
5) transport services;
5-1) services for provision (including booking, sale and delivery) of tickets for all types of transport and tickets for events;
6) entertainment services;
7) other tourist services, provided by the contract of tourist services. 
Footnote.

Section 10. Original section/article: 4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 269-V dated 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 11. Original section/article: 5. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Touristic resources
Classification and valuation of touristic resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan, mode of their security, order of use in recognition of maximum allowed charges on environment and preserving of entirety of touristic resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan, measures on their recover shall be determined in manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Section 12. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Classification of tourism in the Republic of Kazakhstan
1. Tourism in the Republic of Kazakhstan is classified:
1) by types of tourism;
2) according to a branch principle;
3) according to the subjective principle;
4) according to the objective principle.
2. Types of tourism include international and domestic tourism.
3. International tourism includes:
1) inbound tourism, which refers to travel within the Republic of Kazakhstan of persons who do not permanently reside on its territory;
2) outbound tourism, which refers to travel of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and persons permanently residing in the Republic of Kazakhstan to another country.
4. Domestic tourism is travel within the Republic of Kazakhstan of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and persons permanently residing on its territory.
5. According to the sectoral principle, tourism directions are distinguished that are related to the provision of tourist services and the satisfaction of tourist needs in familiarization with objects and activities in a particular area. 
6. According to the subjective principle, the directions of tourism associated with the status (age, professional and others) of the tourists themselves are distinguished. 
7. According to the object principle, tourism directions are distinguished that are associated with tourists visiting specific objects and (or) events.
Footnote.

Section 13. Original section/article: 6. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as reworded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 14. Original section/article: 7. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Export and import of services in tourist industry
1. Rendering of touristic services linked with organization of incoming tourism on territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be export of touristic services.
2. Rendering of touristic services linked with departure in other country shall be import of touristic services.

Section 15. Original section/article: 7-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Touristic fee for foreigners 
1. A touristic fee for foreigners is a payment charged from tourists for every twenty-four hours of stay in the places of accommodation of tourists, except for hostels, guest houses, rental housing in cities and regions. 
2. Operators of the touristic fee for foreigners are persons providing accommodation for tourists, with the exception of the accommodation for tourists provided for in paragraph 1 of this article.
Operators of the touristic fee for foreigners shall be obliged to perform collection and transfer of a touristic fee for foreigners to the local budget.
Footnote. Chapter 1 was amended with

Section 16. Original section/article: 7-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022). 
Chapter 2. State regulation of touristic activity

Section 17. Original section/article: 8. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Basic principles of this Law 
The basic principles of this Law shall be:
1) promoting tourism and creating favourable conditions for its development;
2) supporting priority areas of tourism activities;
3) forming an image of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a country favourable for tourism;
4) ensuring the safety and protection of the rights of tourists and individuals engaged in tourism activities and their associations, as well as protecting their legitimate interests and property.
Footnote.

Section 18. Original section/article: 8. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
– in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 19. Original section/article: 9. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Main objectives and tasks of this Law 
1. The main objectives of this Law shall be:
1) to ensure the rights of citizens to rest and freedom of movement in the field of tourism;
2) to protect the environment;
3) to create conditions for activities aimed at the upbringing, education and health improvement of tourists;
4) developing the tourism industry to meet the needs of citizens when travelling, including ensuring equal (barrier-free) access to tourism infrastructure for all tourists, including persons with disabilities and people with reduced mobility (inclusive tourism);
5) creating new jobs and increasing the income of the state and citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan through the development of the tourism industry;
6) developing international tourism contacts;
7) establishing tourism as a highly profitable sector of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) taking into account state interests, protecting the natural and historical and cultural heritage of the Republic of Kazakhstan when using tourism resources;
9) creating favourable conditions for investment in the tourism industry.
2. The main objectives of this Law shall be:
1) supporting and developing domestic and inbound tourism;
2) creating an effective system of tourism activities to meet the needs of domestic and international tourism;
3) introducing preferential conditions for the organisation of tourism and excursion activities among children, adolescents, young people, individuals with disabilities and low-income groups of the population;
4) promoting the creation of new jobs and employment for the population;
5) participation of individuals engaged in tourism activities and their associations in international tourism programmes;
6) promotion of tourism products in the domestic and global tourism markets;
7) ensuring the rational and effective use, accounting and protection of the country's tourism resources.
Footnote.

Section 20. Original section/article: 9. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
– in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication).

Section 21. Original section/article: 10. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Competence of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall:
1) determine and realize state policy on development of tourism;
2) publish regulatory legal acts, regulating relations in the scope of touristic activity within its competence;
3) create the state system of scientific provision in the scope of touristic activity;
4) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
5) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
6) excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 24.11.2021 № 75-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
7) carry out collaboration and coordination with foreign states in the scope of tourism;
8) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
9) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
10) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
10-1) on the basis of the competition held by the authorized body of the competition, shall determine a legal entity, performing the functions of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism; 
10-2) shall approve the rules of operation of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism, the amount of money to be secured by a bank guarantee for tour operators and tour operators-charterers, operating in the field of outbound tourism, the amount of money to be transferred to a bank account, opened specially for the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism (hereinafter - a special account); 
10-3) shall approve the rules of the competition for the definition of a legal entity, performing the functions of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism;
10-4) approves the rules for payment of a touristic fee for foreigners;
11) perform other functions imposed on it by the Constitution, the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 22. Original section/article: 10. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 23. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 452-IV dated 05.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 13.10.2011); № 461-IV dated 15.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012); № 36-V dated 10.07.2012 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 407-V dated 17.11.2015 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022); от 24.11.2021 № 75-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 24. Original section/article: 11. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Competence of the authorized body
The authorized body shall:
1) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 03.07.2013 № 124-V (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
2) participate in formation and realization of unified policy on attracting investments in touristic branch;
3) realize state policy in the scope of touristic activity, tourism and touristic industry;
4) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
5) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); 
6) carry out inter-industry and inter-regional coordination in the scope of touristic activity, cooperation with native and international touristic, public and other organizations and persons, carrying out touristic activity;
7) bring action in the courts in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
8) exclude by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiration of six months after the date of its first official publication); 
9) is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.07.2011 № 461-IV (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012); 
10) elaborate and perform international treaties in the scope of the touristic activity as well as represent interests of the state in the scope of tourism in international organizations and on international events and participate in their work within its competence;
11) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
12) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
13) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
14) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
15) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
16) – 19) are excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 159-V dated 13.01.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
20) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 269-V dated 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
20-1) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-2) shall determine the general requirements for professional training, retraining and advanced training of specialists in the field of tourism; 
20-3) shall approve the qualification requirements for tour operator activities; 
20-4) approve the Rules for the provision of tourist services, with the exception of the Rules for the provision of tourist services for the transportation of tourists, approved by local representative bodies, in accordance with the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
20-5) shall keep the state electronic registers of persons who have submitted a notification of the beginning or termination of tour agency activities, activities of a guide, excursionist and tourism instructor operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On permissions and notifications";
20-6) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-7) participate in the formation of a state educational order for the training of specialists with higher and postgraduate education, as well as with technical and professional, post-secondary education in tourism education organizations funded from the republican budget;
20-8) approve the distribution and placement of a state educational order for the training of specialists with higher and postgraduate education, as well as with technical and professional, post-secondary education in tourism education organizations funded from the republican budget;
20-9) shall approve the rules for formation, operation of priority touristic territories and their management;
20-10) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-11) shall approve rules for subsidizing the cost of a ticket included in a tourist product for air transportation of minor passengers on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
20-12) shall approve the rules for compensation of touristic services;
Footnote.

Section 25. Original section/article: 11. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
was amended with a subclause 20-12) in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced after the date of entry into force of the relevant amendments and additions to the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget” (Tax Code)). 
20-13) shall coordinate the activities in construction and improvement of tourism infrastructure;
20-14) shall approve the rules for subsidizing the costs of tour operators in the field of inbound tourism for each foreign tourist;
20-15) shall approve the rules for reimbursement of part of the costs of entrepreneurs during the construction, reconstruction of objects of touristic activity;
20-16) shall approve the rules for reimbursement of part of the costs of entrepreneurs for the purchase of equipment and machinery for ski resorts;
20-17) agree with the local executive bodies of the region, city of republican significance, capital, city of regional significance with a special status in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan a list of sanitary and hygienic units for which part of the costs shall be reimbursed during their maintenance;
20-18) shall approve the rules for subsidizing part of the costs of entrepreneurs for the maintenance of sanitary facilities;
20-19) shall approve the rules for reimbursement of part of the costs of entrepreneurs for the construction of roadside service facilities;
20-20) shall approve the rules for reimbursement of part of the costs for the purchase of motor vehicles with a capacity of more than eight seats, excluding the driver's seat, for entrepreneurs engaged in tourism activities;
20-21) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-22) exclude by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiration of six months after the date of its first official publication); 
20-23) exclude by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiration of six months after the date of its first official publication); 
20-24) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-25) as excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication). 
20-26) develop and approve regulatory legal acts in the field of regulating tourist activities in accordance with the goals and objectives of this law and the legislation of the republic of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
21) carry out other powers provided by this Law, other Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acts of the President if the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 26. Original section/article: 11. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 27. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 188-IV dated 07.07.2009 (see

Section 28. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); № 258-IV dated 19.03.2010; № 378-IV dated 06.01.2011 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 452-IV dated 05.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 13.10.2011); № 461-IV dated 15.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 13.10.2012); № 36-V dated 10.07.2012 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 124-V dated 03.07.2013 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 159-V dated 13.01.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after date of its first official publication); № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 269-V dated 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 05.10.2018 № 184-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication); dated 02.07.2020 № 356-VI (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art. 2); dated 19.04.2023 № 223-VII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 03.03.2025 № 166-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 15.04.2025 № 183-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiration of six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 29. Original section/article: 12. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Competence of local executive bodies (akimats) of oblasts, cities of republican significance, capital districts, cities of oblast significance
1. Local executive body of oblast, city of republican significance, capital shall:
1) realize state policy and carry out coordination in the scope of touristic activity on territory of relevant administrative and territorial unit;
2) is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 124-V dated 03.07.2013 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
3) is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 124-V dated 03.07.2013 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); 
4) is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 461-IV dated 15.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012). 
5) Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 269-V (dated 29.12.2014 shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); 
6) analyze market of touristic services and represent necessary details on development of tourism on territory of relevant administrative and territorial unit in the authorized body;
7) shall develop and implement the measures to protect regional (cities of republican significance, the capital) tourist resources; 
8) coordinate the planning and construction of tourist industry facilities on the territory of the corresponding administrative-territorial unit, with the exception of the territory of a city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
9) assist in the activities of children's and youth camps, associations of tourists;
10) provide tourist entities with methodological and advisory assistance in matters related to the organization of tourist activities, with the exception of entities operating in the city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
11) develop and support entrepreneurship in the field of tourism as a measure of increasing employment of the population, with the exception of entrepreneurship carried out in the territory of a city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
11-1) exercise state control over compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tourism activities;
12) provide touristic activity as well as on touristic potential, objects of tourism and persons carrying out touristic activity;
13) establish touristic informational center;
13-1) carry out licensing of tour operator activity in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On permissions and notifications”; 
13-2) organize the professional training of a guide, with the exception of a guide operating in the territory of a city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 
13-3) shall approve, in coordination with the authorized body, an action plan for development of the tourism industry; 
13-14) organize the design, construction and maintenance of engineering infrastructure (roads, bridges, power lines and other communications) to tourism facilities located in specially protected natural areas of national and local significance, as well as to tourism facilities and tourist accommodation areas located outside populated areas, taking into account animal migration routes without granting land use rights or private property rights;
13-15) subsidize the costs of tour operators in the field of inbound tourism for each foreign tourist;
13-16) reimburse part of the costs of business entities for the acquisition of equipment and machinery for ski resorts;
13-7) finance tourist information centers by direct conclusion of an agreement as part of the implementation of joint activities in the field of tourism;
13-8) reimburse part of the costs of business entities during the construction, reconstruction of tourist facilities, with the exception of business entities operating in the city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13-9) approve the lists of sanitary and hygienic units for which part of the costs shall be reimbursed in their maintenance, in agreement with the authorized body, with the exception of the list of sanitary and hygienic units of the city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13-10) carry out measures for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of access roads of regional and district significance to places of accommodation for tourists located outside settlements;
13-11) reimburse part of the costs of business entities for the construction of roadside service facilities, with the exception of roadside service facilities located in the city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13-12) subsidize part of the costs of business entities for the maintenance of sanitary and hygienic units, with the exception of sanitary and hygienic units located on the territory of a city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
13-13) reimburse part of the costs of purchasing motor vehicles with a capacity of more than eight seats, excluding the driver's seat, to business entities engaged in tourism activities, with the exception of motor vehicles purchased by business entities engaged in tourism activities in the territory of a city of regional significance with a special status, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
14) carry out other powers imposed on local executive body by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in interests of local state administration;
2. Local executive body of district, city of republican significance shall:
1 realize state policy and carry out coordination in the scope of touristic activity on territory of relevant administrative and territorial unit;
2) carry out collecting, analysis and provide information on development of tourism on territory of relevant administrative and territorial unit in local executive body of oblast, city of republican significance, capital;
3) elaborate and inculcate measures on protection of district touristic resources;
4) coordinate activity on planning and building of objects of touristic industry on territory of relevant administrative and territorial unit;
5) assist in the activities of children's and youth camps, associations of tourists;
6) provide touristic information as well as on touristic potential, objects of tourism and persons carrying out touristic activity;
6-1) shall keep a register of tourist routes and paths in the area;
7) carry out other powers imposed on local executive body by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in interests of local state administration;
Footnote.

Section 30. Original section/article: 12. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 31. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 452-IV dated 05.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 13.10.2011); № 461-IV dated 15.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012); № 124-V dated 03.07.2013 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 159-V dated 13.01.2012 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); № 239-V dated 29.09.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after the day of its first official publication); № 269-V dated 29.12.2014 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); dated 28.12.2018 № 210-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art. 2); dated 03.03.2025 № 166-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 26.06.2025 № 198-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication); dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 32. Original section/article: 13. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Tourism counsel
1. Tourism counsel shall be created as advisory and consultative body upon the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Structure of tourism counsel include representatives of the authorized body and interested state bodies as well as representatives of association and other unions in the scope of touristic activity.
3. Tourism counsel shall:
1) elaborate suggestions on questions of tourism development, attracting investment in current branch of economy, provision of favorable treatment of entrance in the Republic of Kazakhstan and creation of conditions for departure of tourists abroad, formation of touristic reputation of the republic, training of specialists in the scope of touristic activity;
2) keep rating of persons carrying out the touristic activity on established manner by it for purpose of informing of customers of touristic services on quality of services.
4. Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 33. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement). 
Footnote.

Section 34. Original section/article: 13. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 35. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 36. Original section/article: 14. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Touristic informational center
The Tourist Information Centre is an organization established by the akimat of the region (city of republican significance, capital), created to form and distribute information about Kazakhstan and its tourist potential, promote the tourist product on the international tourist market and within the state, and also to create conditions for the development of new business entities and scientific and methodological support in the field of tourist activities.
Footnote.

Section 37. Original section/article: 14. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 38. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 115-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 39. Original section/article: 14-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Priority touristic areas
1. A priority touristic area is an area with special potential of touristic development, included into the list of the objects of republican level of the touristification map.
2. Participants of the priority touristic area are individuals and legal entities engaged in entrepreneurial activities in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
3. A priority touristic area shall be created for the purposes of:
increasing the competitiveness of the territory in the tourism market due to the synergistic effect;
improving the efficiency of the subjects of touristic activities;
concentration of resources (material, intellectual and others) in the most promising points of tourism development.
4. The construction of facilities that can meet the demand of tourists in priority tourist areas shall be carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 3 was amended with

Section 40. Original section/article: 14-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 41. Original section/article: 14-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
State support of investments
Legal entities, implementing an investment priority project in the priority touristic area, shall be provided with preferences in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 3 was amended with

Section 42. Original section/article: 14-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced from 01.01.2022).

Section 43. Original section/article: 14-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Powers of the organization, created by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the purposes of development of domestic and inbound tourism 
An organization established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the development of domestic and inbound tourism shall be vested with the following powers:
1) organizing events aimed at the development of inbound and domestic tourism;
2) promoting the Republic of Kazakhstan and its touristic opportunities in the international and domestic tourism markets, including through the use and development of the national touristic portal; 
3) developing and promoting national touristic brands in the international and domestic tourism markets, forms and maintains their register in accordance with the approved rules;
4) developing a marketing strategy in the tourism industry, coordinates and monitors its implementation; 
5) participating in creation and development of touristic resources;
6) conducting an analysis of touristic potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) administering subsidizing the cost of a ticket included into a tourist product during air transportation of underage passengers in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote. Chapter 3 was amended with

Section 44. Original section/article: 14-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art.2). 
Chapter 3. Organization of touristic activity

Section 45. Original section/article: 15. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
General conditions for the implementation of tourism activities
1. A tour operator in the field of outbound tourism, when carrying out tour operator activities in the field of outbound tourism, shall be obliged to conclude an agreement on compulsory insurance of a tourist in relation to each tourist traveling abroad.
Provision of touristic services by a touristic operator in the field of outbound tourism without concluding a written treaty on tourist services shall be the grounds for suspension of the license.
2. In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On permissions and notifications”:
tour operator activity in the field of outbound tourism shall be a licensed subtype of activity; 
tour operator activity in the field of inbound and domestic tourism shall be a licensed subtype of activity;
tour agent activities as well as the activities of guides, excursionists and tourism instructors carrying out activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs, shall be carried out in a notification manner.
Suspension or termination of a license for tour operator activity shall entail a ban on the provision of touristic services, except for obligations arising from previously concluded agreements.
Suspension of a license for tour operator activity, termination of a license for tour operator activity shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The tour operator shall ensure the provision of all services included in the tourist product to tourists, independently or with the involvement of third parties, on which the tour operator is entrusted with the fulfillment of part or all of its obligations to tourists.
A tour operator in the field of outbound tourism shall promote and sell a tourist product exclusively through travel agents. When selling a tourist product formed by a tour operator in the field of outbound tourism, a travel agent is obliged to issue a touristic voucher.
The tourist product formed by a non-resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be promoted by including a tour operator in the field of outbound tourism in the tourist product and is implemented in accordance with the present Law.
3. The travel agent shall promote and sell to tourists the tourist product formed by the tour operator, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Promotion and sale of a tourist product by a travel agent shall be carried out on the basis of an agency agreement for the sale of a tourist product concluded with a tour operator in writing. 
The agency agreement for the sale of a tourist product between the tour operator and the travel agent must contain: 
information about the tour operator that formed the tourist product; 
powers of the tour agent to make transactions with tourists on behalf of the tour operator;
the procedure for interaction between the tour operator and the tour agent in the event that a tourist or third parties providing individual tourist services included in the tourist product, claims; 
description of the touristic itinerary;
reliable information about the tourist product and the responsibility of each party to the tourist for failure to provide or providing false information about the tourist product.
The tour operator shall be liable to the tourist under the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of obligations under the contract for tourist services (including for failure to provide or improper provision of services included in the tourist product to tourists, regardless of who should have been provided or provided these services).
4. Tour operator activities aimed at meeting religious needs shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure, determined by the state body that carries out state regulation in the field of religious activity, in agreement with the authorized body.
Footnote.

Section 46. Original section/article: 15. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
- as reworded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (for the procedure of enactment see Art. 2); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.12.2025 № 241-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 47. Original section/article: 15-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Classification of places pf placement of tourists
1. Places of placement of tourists shall be subject to classification in purpose of supporting increasing of tourist movement and incomes of all types of tourism.
2. Characteristic of places of placement of tourists allowing to carry out attestation on one of categories on bases of rules of classification of places of placement of tourists shall be considered upon performance of classification.
3. Rules pf classification of places of placement shall determine basic purpose, organizational structure. Minimal requirements and regulate order of assignment of categories to places pf placement of tourists.
Footnote. The Law is supplemented by

Section 48. Original section/article: 15-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 49. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 50. Original section/article: 15-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Formation of touristic product
1. Formation of touristic product – is activity of tour operator on negotiating and performance of treaties with third parties rendering particular touristic services included in touristic product.
2. Touristic product shall be formed by tour operator at its discretion on the assumption of conjuncture of touristic market or on concrete order.
3. Tour operator accrue a right on services included in tour on base of treaties providing particular touristic services.
Footnote. The Law is supplemented by

Section 51. Original section/article: 15-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 52. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for order of enforcement).

Section 53. Original section/article: 15-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Notifications in the field of tourism
1. Notification of the beginning or termination of the activity of a guide, excursionist, tourism instructor operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs, a travel agent shall be submitted in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On permissions and notifications".
2. Applicants sending a notification of the start of travel agency activities, shall attach information in the form approved by the authorized body.
3. Applicants sending a notification about the start of activities as a guide, excursionist, tourism instructor, operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan as individual entrepreneurs, shall attach to the notification information in the form approved by the authorized body, and a certificate of training in the field of tourism.
Footnote. Chapter 3 shall be supplemented by

Section 54. Original section/article: 15-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 29.12.2014 № 269-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2015); as reworded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of sixty calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 55. Original section/article: 16. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Standardization in the field of tourist activities 
Standardization in the field of tourist activities shall be carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of standardization. 
Footnote.

Section 56. Original section/article: 16. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
shall be amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.10.2018 № 184-VI (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after its first official publication).

Section 57. Original section/article: 17. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Treaty on touristic serving
1. Rendering of touristic services shall be carried out on base of treaty. Treaty on touristic serving shall be negotiated in written form with exception treaties negotiated by guide (guide-interpreter) and ciceroni and shall correspond to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Material condition of treaty on touristic serving shall be established by type treaty established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Provision of touristic services by a touristic operator in the field of inbound and outbound tourism without concluding a written treaty on tourist services shall be the grounds for suspension of the license.
Provision of touristic services by a touristic operator in the field of inbound and outbound tourism without concluding a written treaty on tourist services, committed repeatedly within a year shall be the grounds for revocation of the license.
Decision on suspension or revocation of the license shall be made by the authorized body.
The duration of the license suspension shall be one month.
2. Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 58. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement). 
3. Each party have a right to require changes or denouncement of treaty in recognition with material changes of conditions from judge by which upon negotiating of treaty.
4. Material changes of conditions are:
1) deterioration of conditions of travel, changes of travel terms;
2) unforeseen increase of transport tariffs;
3) enforcement of new or increase of active tax and charge rates and other obligated payments in the budget;
4) other bases determined on agreement of parties.
5. Tourist have a right to avoid treaty in case of non-performance or inappropriate performance of treaty by person carrying out touristic activity on conditions and manner provided by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
6. Tourist have a right to decline from performance of treaty before beginning of travel upon condition of payment to person carrying out touristic activity incurred by him (her) expenditure for services rendered before notification on decline from performance of treaty in fact.
7. Is excluded by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 59. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement) 
8. In case of purchase of touristic services included in structure of tour document confirming rights of tourist on relevant services of touristic voucher.
9. Services shall be subject to payment in full volume in case of impossibility of performance of treaty on touristic serving arising through a fault of tourist unless otherwise is not provided by the legislative acts or treaty of refundable rendering of services.
10. In case when impossibility of performance of treaty on touristic serving is increased on conditions on which no one of parties shall not respond tourist shall compensate expenditures to person carried out touristic activity incurred by him (her) unless otherwise is not provided by the legislative acts or treaty.
11. Person carrying out touristic activity have a right to refuse from performance of treaty only upon condition of full compensate of losses to customer inflicted by denouncement of treaty except case when it happened through a fault of tourist.
12. Person carrying out touristic activity shall entail responsibility for inappropriate performance of conditions of treaty in case of irregularity of condition of treaty on arrival in other country or on itinerary of travel.
Footnote.

Section 60. Original section/article: 17. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 222 dated 12.01.2007 (shall be enforced upon expiry of six months after the date of its first publication); № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 61. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); dated 17.12.2025 № 241-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 62. Original section/article: 18. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Compensation of losses and moral harm, conditions of changing of treaty of touristic serving
1. Compensation of losses and moral harm to tourists shall be performed in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Person carrying out touristic activity shall not entail responsibility for damage incurred by tourist on time of traveling in consequence of action of insuperable force.
3. Person carrying out touristic activity shall give individual or group (upon serving of touristic group) carriage document (ticket) to tourist containing names of point of departure and destination, maid rules and obligations of passengers upon transfer of passengers on any type of transport.
4. Person carrying out touristic activity shall inform in written form family of tourist on emergency event with tourist on at its expense.
5. Responsibility for transfer non provided to weight of freight its safety shall be imposed on tourist. Treaty of transfer shall be in force if person carrying out touristic activity gave ticket, baggage-check or airway bill on applied to transfer freight but they formed inaccurate or lost or on any other reasons it is impossible to present them.
6. Person carrying out touristic activity shall inform tourist in written form immediately on character of such changes and possible consequences in case of changes of conditions provided by treaty and necessity of material change of conditions of treaty.
Footnote.

Section 63. Original section/article: 18. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 64. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 65. Original section/article: 19. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Persons carrying out touristic activity
1. Persons carrying out touristic activity have a right to open their affiliated organizations and representatives.
2. Persons, engaged in tourist activities, may not use the names of other persons, engaged in tourist activities, registered in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state registration of legal entities and account registration of branches and representative offices.
Footnote.

Section 66. Original section/article: 19. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 461-IV dated 05.07.2011 (shall be enforced from 30.01.2012); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.04.2019 № 241-VІ (shall be enforced from 01.07.2019).

Section 67. Original section/article: 20. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Unions of persons carrying out touristic activity
Footnote. Title in wording of Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 68. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).
Persons, carrying out touristic activity and other persons of touristic industry may create unions in form associations (alliances) in purpose of coordination of their professional activity as well as representation and protection of general interests in manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 69. Original section/article: 20. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 70. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 71. Original section/article: 21. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Unions of tourists
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan may create public unions in purpose of protection of rights and interests, supporting of development of tourism.

Section 72. Original section/article: 22. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Professional training of specialists in the scope of touristic activity
1. Professional training, re-training of specialists in the scope of tourism shall be carried out by organizations of education having relevant licenses in the scope of education.
2. Order of re-training and advanced training of specialists in the scope of touristic activity shall be determined by the authorized body.
Footnote.

Section 73. Original section/article: 22. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 74. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 75. Original section/article: 23. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Guide (guide-interpreter), instructor of tourism, ciceroni
Guide (guide-interpreter), instructor of tourism, ciceroni may be only a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chapter 4. Rights and obligations of tourist, provision of security of tourist

Section 76. Original section/article: 24. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Rights of tourist
Upon preparing to travel, on time of traveling including through traffic tourist have a right on:
1) address in counsel, diplomatic, other state as well as touristic representatives in case of offence on his (her) personal security or property;
2) necessity and true information on rules of entrance in country (place) of temporary stay as well as departure from country place) of temporary stay or stay there, on specialties of the legislation of the country (place) of temporary stay, on customs of native population, on religious rites, relics, monuments of nature, history, culture and other objects of touristic demonstration being under special security, environment condition;
3) freedom of movement, free access to touristic resources in recognition of applied restrictive measures in country of temporary stay;
4) compensation of losses and moral harm in case of non-performance of conditions of treaty on touristic serving by persons carrying out touristic activity in manner established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) receiving of emergency medical treatment;
6) supporting in receiving of legal and other types of assistance to foreign tourists of the state power of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7) unhampered access of tourists to available communications facilities.
Other rights of tourists shall be determined by the legislation of country (place) of stay.
Footnote.

Section 77. Original section/article: 24. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 78. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 79. Original section/article: 25. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Obligations of tourist
On time of traveling including through traffic tourist shall:
1) observe the legislation of country (place) of temporary stay;
2) preserve environment, treat with due care to monuments of nature, history and culture in country (place) of temporary stay;
3) observe rules of entrance and stay in country (place) of temporary stay as well as departure from country (place) of temporary stay and in countries of travel in transit;
4) observe rules of personal security on time of travel.
Other obligation of tourists shall be determined by the legislation of country (place) of stay.

Section 80. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Provision of security of tourists
1. Security of tourists on territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be warranted by the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Republic of Kazakhstan shall warrant protection and patronage beyond it to tourists-citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. Under security of tourists shall be regarded personal security of tourists, preserving of their property and not-inflicting of harm to environment on time of travels as well as complex of measures directed of preserving of use of tourism in purpose of illegal migration and through traffic in third countries, sexual, labor and other exploitation of citizens.
3. The authorized body shall inform persons carrying out touristic activity and tourists on possible dangers for tourists in country (place) of temporary stay.
4. Persons carrying out touristic activity shall provide to tourists details on specialties of travels including necessity and true information on rules of entrance, departure and stay on country (place) of temporary stay, on legislation, on customs of native population, on religious rites, relics, monuments of nature, history, culture and other objects of touristic demonstration being under special security, environment condition as well as on dangers with which they can meet upon traveling and carry out preventive measures directed on provision of security of tourists in a three days before beginning of travel in written form.
5. Persons carrying out touristic activity shall immediately inform the authorized body and the authorized body in the scope of civil protection as well as tourist’s family from the moment when they knew or have to knew on emergency event with tourist on time of travel.
If emergency event happened with foreign tourists on territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan or tourists-citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan beyond of the Republic of Kazakhstan persons carrying out touristic activity shall inform also bodies of the diplomatic service.
Failure to provide or untimely provision by touristic operators to the authorized body, the authorized body in the field of civil protection, interested state bodies and the tourist's family of information on emergency situations involving tourists during travel shall be the grounds for suspension of the license.
Failure to provide or untimely provision by touristic operators to the authorized body, the authorized body in the field of civil protection, interested state bodies and the tourist's family of information on emergency situations involving tourists during travel shall be the grounds for suspension of the license, committed repeatedly within one year, shall be the grounds for revocation of the license.
Decision on suspension or revocation of the license shall be made by the authorized body.
The duration of the license suspension shall be one month.
6. Tourists supposed to travel in country (place) of temporary stay shall pass prevention in accordance with the international medical requirements.
7. Rendering of necessity assistance to tourists suffering distress on territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be carried out by specialized services determined by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8. The authorized body jointly with interested ministries and other executive bodies shall organize provision of protection and security of tourists.
9. Akimat of oblast, city of republican significance, capital shall organize protection and security of tourists.
Footnote.

Section 81. Original section/article: 26. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan № 13 dated 20.12.2004 (shall be enforced from 01.01.2005); № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 82. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement); № 124-V dated 03.07.2013 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); № 189-V dated 11.04.2014 (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 17.12.2025 № 241-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication).

Section 83. Original section/article: 27. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Insurance in tourist activities 
1. When selling a tourist product, a travel agent must: 
to request the name of insurance company or branch of the insurance nonresident organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan with which, (which) the tourist who shall be going abroad expresses intention to sign the contract of obligatory insurance of the tourist;
issue an insurance certificate to a tourist traveling abroad and, if necessary, an insurance policy. 
2. The contract of compulsory insurance of a tourist should provide for payment of medical care to tourists and reimbursement of their expenses in the event of an insured event directly in the country (place) of temporary stay. 
3. The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to impose on tourists who enter the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan a requirement of having a certificate of life and health insurance. 
4. A tour operator in the field of outbound tourism shall be obliged to ensure a tourist traveling abroad against the risks, specified by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On mandatory insurance of a tourist". 
Footnote.

Section 84. Original section/article: 27. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
shall be amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 02.07.2018 № 166-VI (shall be enforced from 01.01.2019); as amended by the Law of the RK dated 02.01.2021 № 399-VI (shall enter into force from 16.12.2020). 
Chapter 4-1. System of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism 
Footnote. The Law shall be supplemented by Chapter 4-1 in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 17.11.2015 № 407-V (shall be enforced from 01.01.2016).

Section 85. Original section/article: 27-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
General provisions 
The system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be a set of legal relations between citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, travel agents, tour operators, tour operators-charterers, the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism and the authorized body, protecting the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in outbound tourism.

Section 86. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Subjects of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism 
1. The subjects of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be:
1) tour operators, operating in the field of outbound tourism; 
2) tour operators-charterers, operating in the field of outbound tourism;
3) travel agents, engaged in the field of outbound tourism; 
4) the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism. 
2. The administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the sphere of outbound tourism shall be a legal entity determined by the authorized body, the only type of activity of which is the implementation of the functions of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the sphere of outbound tourism.
3. The administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall not be entitled to carry out entrepreneurial and other types of activities, receive loans, act as a guarantor on loans to third parties, transfer property as collateral.
4. The activity of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be financed at the expense of a commission fee, deducted from the amount of money to be transferred in accordance with subparagraph 2) of paragraph 1 of

Section 87. Original section/article: 27-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
of this Law in the amount, established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
5. The beneficiaries of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who are tourists.
6. The administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall carry out:
administration of the mechanism for assigning a tourist code to citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of outbound tourism;
acceptance of a differentiated guarantee amount determined by the authorized body.
7. The administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be obliged:
to carry out, in accordance with the rules of functioning of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism, the return of the deposited bank guarantee, as well as the transferred funds for the sold tourist products by the subject of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism, provided that there are no facts of export of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan through the fault of this entity in the event of termination of the type of tour operator activity in the field of outbound tourism;
to return the deposited bank guarantee by the subject of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism to this subject upon reaching the maximum amount of the bank guarantee;
to ensure the application of the transfer offset method for the next calendar year for the entities of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism three years after the entry of this entity into the system, with the exception of the amount of commission allocated for activities administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism.
Footnote.

Section 88. Original section/article: 27-2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 115-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 89. Original section/article: 27-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Obligations of the subjects of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism 
1. The following obligations shall be imposed on tour operators and tour operators-charterers, operating in the field of outbound tourism: 
1) conclusion of a bank guarantee contract with a second-tier bank in accordance with the banking legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, providing for payment in favor of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism or third parties, identified by the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism, of money secured by a bank guarantee, with the provision of the original or a notarized copy of the contract of the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism; 
2) transfer to a special account of money from each tourist product generated by a tour operator or tour operator-charterer and sold by a travel agent to a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the amount approved by the authorized body.
2. Ensuring that the subjects of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism fulfill the obligations, listed in this article, shall be assigned to the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism and the authorized body.
3. The local executive body of the region, the city of republican significance, the capital, in the event that the provision of tourist services to citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism by a tour operator or a tour operator-charterer that does not fulfill the obligations provided for by this article, or performs them improperly, shall be obliged to suspend the license (supplement to the license) for tourist operator activities in the field of outbound tourism within three working days from the date of detection of such a circumstance in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 90. Original section/article: 27-3. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 05.07.2024 № 115-VIII (shall come into effect upon expiry of ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication).

Section 91. Original section/article: 27-4. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Mechanism of protection of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism 
1. The decision to perform actions to protect the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be taken by the administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism in coordination with the authorized body in the following cases: 
1) written or oral appeal of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan in case of violation of his rights in the field of outbound tourism;
2) appeals of state bodies on the facts of violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tourist activities in the field of outbound tourism;
3) a written appeal of the association (associations) of tourists on the facts of violation of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism; 
4) appeals of mass media on the facts of violation of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism; 
5) in other cases of a threat of harm to the life and health of the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism. 
2. The administrator of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall notify the head of the tour operator or tour operator-charterer about the decision within a day, the foreign institution of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the country where the tourists are located, and shall also inform the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan through the media. 
3. The procedure for implementation of measures to protect the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism shall be determined in the rules of operation of the system of guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism.
Chapter 5. Final provisions

Section 92. Original section/article: 28. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Responsibility for infraction of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on touristic activity
Infraction of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on touristic activity shall entail responsibility in accordance with the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote.

Section 93. Original section/article: 28. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
in the wording of Law the Republic of Kazakhstan № 59-IV dated 05.07.2008 (see

Section 94. Original section/article: 2. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
for the order of enforcement).

Section 95. Original section/article: 28-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
State control over the compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on touristic activity
1. State control over compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tourism activity shall be carried out in the form of inspection, preventive control with a visit to the subject (facility) of control and preventive control without a visit to the subject (facility) of control. 
2. Inspection and preventive control with a visit to the subject (facility) of control shall be carried out in accordance with the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Preventive control without visiting the subject (facility) of control shall be carried out in accordance with the Entrepreneurial Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and this Law.
3. The objectives of preventive control without visiting the subject (object) of control shall be the timely suppression and prevention of violations, granting the subject of control the right to independently eliminate violations identified as a result of preventive control without visiting the subject (object) of control, and reducing the administrative burden on the subject of control.
Preventive control without visiting the subject (object) of control shall be carried out by the local executive body of the region, city of republican significance, capital, in the form of information analysis.
The sources of information for analysis shall be:
official statistical information;
information from government agencies;
information about the organization on the formation and maintenance of the database;
information from an organization created by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the purpose of developing domestic and inbound tourism;
information from the administrator of the system for guaranteeing the rights of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of outbound tourism;
information received from tourism entities.
In the event of detection of violations based on the results of preventive control without visiting the subject (object) of control in the actions (inaction) of the subject of control, the local executive body of the region, city of republican significance, capital shall draw up and send a recommendation to eliminate the violations within a period of no later than five working days from the date of detection of the violations.
The recommendation to eliminate violations must be delivered to the subject of control personally against signature or in another way that confirms the facts of sending and receipt.
A recommendation to eliminate violations sent in one of the following ways shall be considered to have been delivered in the following cases:
1) on purpose – from the date of the note in the recommendation on receipt;
2) by mail – registered letter with notification;
3) electronically - from the date of sending by the local executive body of the region, city of republican significance, the capital, to the electronic address of the subject of control, specified in the letter upon request of the local executive body of the region, city of republican significance, the capital.
4. The recommendation to eliminate violations must be executed within ten working days from the day following the day of its delivery.
5. In the event of disagreement with the violations specified in the recommendation to eliminate the violations, the subject of control shall have the right to send an objection to the local executive body of the region, city of republican significance, or capital that sent the recommendation to eliminate the violations within five working days from the day following the day of its delivery.
6. Failure to comply with the recommendation to eliminate violations within the established time frame shall entail the assignment of preventive control with a visit to the subject (object) of control by inclusion in the semi-annual list of preventive control with a visit to the subject (object) of control.
7. Preventive control without visiting the subject (object) of control shall be performed no more than once a year.
Footnote.

Section 96. Original section/article: 28-1. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
as reworded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 30.04.2021 № 34-VII (shall be enforced upon expiry of ten calendar days after its first official publication); dated 06.04.2024 № 71-VIII (shall enter into force upon expiry of sixty calendar days after the day of its first official publication); dated 17.07.2025 № 213-VIII (shall come into effect six months after the date of its first official publication).

Section 97. Original section/article: 29. Source: Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Touristic Activity.
Transitional provisions
Individuals and legal entities having licenses on carrying out of touristic activity on moment of enforcement of this Law shall bring their activity in accordance with this Law in six monthly terms from date of enforcement of this Law.
The President
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
If you found any error on the page, please highlight a word or a phrase and then press «Ctrl+Enter» key combination
Database status
Total documents: 451977 
In Kazakh: 224985 
In Russian: 224786 
In English: 2205 
Update date: 05/21/2026 
Documents as of: 05/18/2026 
Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan law information services
Free call from landline phones 
(7172) 58-00-58 over Kazakhstan 
58-00-58 for Astana, Almaty 
Feedback 
Legal Advice 
Screen Reader 
Site map 
Support
Email: support@zqai.kz 
Telephone (for technical issues of the site):
(7172) - 572496 
Working hours: 09:00 - 18:30 
(Astana time) 
Off days: Saturday, Sunday 
Recent documents
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Administrative Infractions 
On Public Procurement 
all latest documents 
Popular documents
Labour code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget (Tax Code) 
On Administrative Infractions 
Civil procedural code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On Public Procurement 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Penal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURAL AND PROCESS-RELATED CODE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Special part) 
Entrepreneur Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
© 2012. «Institute of legislation and legal information of the Republic of Kazakhstan» of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
On-page search
Next 
Previous 
Remove 
Enter text to search
Hint: Browser has internal on-page search. It works faster and is usually activated by pressing ctrl-F.
