Kazakhstan source: Obtaining visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Category: Immigration and visas
Source URL: https://egov.kz/cms/en/articles/rk_visa_obtaining
Note: Official eGov visa guide and service overview.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: Obtaining visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Obtaining visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan | Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ҚАЗ РУС ENG 
Go to the visually impaired mode
Mobile version 
History of obtainment of services History of service payment History of obtainment of services (PSC) Citizens' e-applications Notifications NDB Services Online reception (secretary) Online reception (admin) Personal account Log out 
Log in or 
sign up 
Public services
and online information 
Single contact center
the call is free
paid call
for foreign calls (free through the internet) 
1414 +7 7172 906 984 
For example: Address reference 
Single contact center
the call is free
paid call
for foreign calls (free through the internet) 
1414 +7 7172 906 984 
Menu
Services 
--> Proactive services 
-->
Open Government 
Personal account 
Register of state services 
Payment 
About Portal 
Help 
Home 
Pass to heading 
Obtaining visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Printable version 
Last update: 31.01.2025 
Useful links:
Visa-migration portal of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Visa regime of the Republic of Kazakhstan for foreign citizens 
Rules for entry and exit from Kazakhstan for foreign nationals 
Visa classification to stay in the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Also look:
Visa regime of the Republic of Kazakhstan for foreign citizеns 
Visa regime for citizens of the Rеpublic of Kazakhstan 
Kandas in Kazakhstan: help, privileges, adaptation 
Status and rights of kandas 
Contacts of adaptation and integration centers for qandas 
Foreign citizens and stateless persons need an entry and exit permit (hereinafter - visa) to enter the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, unless another procedure is established by an international treaty of the RK.
Visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan means a stamp of the authorized state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the passport of the migrant or a document that replaces it, or a stamp of the authorized state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the information system that gives the right to enter the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, travel through its territory, stay in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for a period of time, for the purposes and under the conditions specified in the visa.
In accordance with the Rules for issuing invitations, coordinating invitations for foreigners and stateless persons to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan, issuing, cancelling, restoring and renewing visas of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as extending and shortening their validity (hereinafter - the Rules), approved by joint order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 11-1-2/555 dated 24 November 2016 and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 1100 dated 28 November 2016, for issuing visas in foreign institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the place of actual location of the service recipient or registration of the inviting party shall submit the following documents and information required to provide state services "Issue, renewal or extension in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan of visas for foreigners and stateless persons for the right to leave the Republic of Kazakhstan and enter the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "Issue, renewal and transit through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan" :
Visa application form with a colour or black and white photograph measuring 3.5 x 4.5 cm;
When applying for a visa in a foreign country of the Republic of Kazakhstan or at an international airport of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the number, date of invitation registered with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan (the number and date of issuance of the invitation to the recipient of the visa is notified by the inviting party), or the application of the recipient of the visa category stipulated in paragraph 25 of the Rules;
A valid diplomatic, service, foreign passport of a foreign country or other identification document recognized as the Republic of Kazakhstan and granting the right to cross the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - passport);
The original payment documents confirming the payment of the consular fee or state duty;
Additional documents required for receipt of visa in accordance with Annex 1 to the Regulations.
Documents issued or certified by a competent institution of a foreign country or specially authorized person, within its competence and in the prescribed form, bearing the foreign country's stamp, shall be accepted only after passing the special certification procedure (legalization or apostilization).
Invitation to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan for private affairs shall be submitted not earlier than 1 year and not later than 5 working days before the expected date of entry of the visa recipient into the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The application or note verbale shall be submitted not earlier than 90 calendar days and not later than 5 working days before the expected date of entry of the visa recipient into the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The term of consideration of the invitation is not more than 3 working days when providing the service in electronic form and not more than 5 working days - in paper form - from the date of filing the application, except for the cases specified in paragraph 16 of the Rules.
The time limits for issuing visas do not exceed 5 working days . When applying through the portal - 30 (thirty) minutes.
The consular fees paid are non-refundable.
After 5 working days, a visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan is issued to a foreigner by an foreign institution. In cases stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a foreigner may be refused a visa of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Electronic Visas 
An electronic visa (business, tourist and medical) is issued on the basis of a valid invitation from the Kazakhstan side, issued in accordance with the established procedure in the migration service units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Foreigners can enter/leave on/off the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan using a valid electronic visa only through the checkpoints of international airports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Electronic visas are issued to citizens of 109 countries (a list of countries is attached).
The electronic visa is valid only for the recipient of the visa and does not apply to accompanying persons.
The consular fees paid are non-refundable.
The passport provided by the visa recipient must meet the following criteria: 
1) do not raise doubts about its authenticity and belonging to its owner, contain notes on extension, reservations, entries, erasures and corrections, torn or embossed pages;
2) have at least 2 clean pages;
3) its validity period expires not earlier than 3 months from the date of expiry of the requested visa;
4) must not have any notes on the extension of the validity period.
Receiving party informs the Migration Service about foreign nationals staying with them within three working days of their arrival.
Step-by-step algorithm for issuing an electronic visa 
- To obtain an electronic visa, you must register on the Visa and Migration Portal website ( www.vmp.gov.kz );
- after registration, familiarise yourself with the requirements for obtaining an electronic visa;
- enter the number of invitation (the number of invitation is sent by the inviting party in the Republic of Kazakhstan) and fill in the necessary passport data;
- to pay the consular fee;
- print out the electronic visa (visa is formed in the personal office);
- to present a printed electronic visa when passing passport control at the international airports of Astana and Almaty.
List of countries whose citizens are registeredsingle-entry electronic visas
1. People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
2. Republic of Angola
3. Principality of Andorra
4. Antigua and Barbuda
5. Aruba
6. The Commonwealth of the Bahamas
7. People's Republic of Bangladesh
8. Barbados
9. Republic of Belize
10. Republic of Benin
11. Plurinational State of Bolivia
12. Bosnia and Herzegovina
13. Republic of Botswana
14. Brunei Darussalam State
15. Burkina Faso 
16. Republic of Burundi
17. Kingdom of Bhutan
18. Republic of Vanuatu
19. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
20. Gabonese Republic
21. Co-operative Republic of Guyana
22. Republic of Haiti
23. Republic of Gambia
24. Republic of Ghana
25. Republic of Guatemala
26. Republic of Guinea
27. Republic of Guinea-Bissau
28. Republic of Honduras
29. PRC (Hong Kong SAR)
30. Grenada
31. Republic of Djibouti
32. Commonwealth of Dominica
33. Dominican Republic
34. Arab Republic of Egypt
35. Republic of Zambia
36. Republic of Zimbabwe
37. Republic of India
38. Islamic Republic of Iran
39. Kingdom of Cambodia
40. Republic of Cameroon
41. Republic of Kenya
42. Republic of Kiribati
43. Democratic People's Republic of Korea
44. People's Republic of China
45. Comoro islands
46. Republic of the Congo
47. Republic of Costa Rica
48. Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
49. Republic of Cuba
50. Lao People's Democratic Republic
51. Kingdom of Lesotho
52. Republic of Liberia
53. Lebanese Republic
54. Republic of Mauritius
55. Islamic Republic of Mauritania
56. Republic of Madagascar
57. PRC (Macao SAR)
58. Republic of Northern Macedonia
59. Republic of Malawi
60. Republic of Mali
61. Maldives
62. Kingdom of Morocco
63. Republic of the Marshall Islands
64. Micronesia
65. Republic of Mozambique
66. Republic of the Union of Myanmar
67. Republic of Namibia
68. Republic of Nauru
69. Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal
70. Republic of Niger
71. Federal Republic of Nigeria
72. Republic of Nicaragua
73. Republic of Palau
74. Republic of Panama
75. Independent State of Papua New Guinea
76. Republic of Paraguay
77. Republic of Peru
78. Republic of Rwanda
79. Republic of El Salvador
80. Republic of San Marino
81. Samoa 
82. Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
83. Kingdom of Eswatini
84. Republic of Seychelles
85. Republic of Senegal
86. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
87. Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis
88. Saint Lucia
89. Republic of Suriname
90. Republic of Sierra Leone
91. United Republic of Tanzania
92. Togolese Republic
93. Kingdom of Tonga
94. Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
95. Tuvalu
96. Tunisian Republic
97. Turkmenistan 
98. Republic of Uganda
99. Eastern Republic of Uruguay
100. Faroe Islands
101. Republic of Fiji
102. Central African Republic
103. Republic of Chad
104. Montenegro
105. Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
106. The State of Eritrea
107. Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
108. South Africa
109. Jamaica
Source: MFA RK 
External resources
E-licensing 
Taxpayer cabinet 
Judicial office 
Debtor-creditor 
Activity calendar 
Anti-corruption measures 
State agencies of RK 
Constitution of the RK 
National symbols of the RK 
Address of the President of the RK 
State agencies of RK 
Anti-corruption measures 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Government for citizens
Reserve queue 
Contacts 
Services list 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
© Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Page up 
× 
Notification
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
For further working with egov.kz, you need to install the certificate issued by National Certification Authority of the Republic of Kazakhstan .
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
Close 
Help 
About Portal 
Personal account Help 
Total visitors per month:
Total visitors for yesterday:
Now on the portal:
URL:
Error:
Comment:
Send 
Cancel 
Спасибо, информация об ошибке принята.
Извините, в данный момент информация об ошибке не может быть обработана.
Попробуйте позже. 
OK 
CHAT_DOMAIN = 'https://kenes.1414.kz';
(function (d, s, id) {
var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
js = d.createElement(s);
js.id = id;
js.src = CHAT_DOMAIN + "/static/js/local_loader.js";
fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
})(document, 'script', 'chatbotscript');
