Kazakhstan source: How foreigners can obtain a work permit in Kazakhstan
Category: Labour
Source URL: https://egov.kz/cms/en/articles/workpermit
Note: Official eGov guide; notes EAEU citizens, including Russian citizens, may work under an employment contract without a permit.

Section 1. Original section/article: 1. Source: How foreigners can obtain a work permit in Kazakhstan.
How foreigners can obtain a work permit in Kazakhstan | Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
ҚАЗ РУС ENG 
Go to the visually impaired mode
Mobile version 
History of obtainment of services History of service payment History of obtainment of services (PSC) Citizens' e-applications Notifications NDB Services Online reception (secretary) Online reception (admin) Personal account Log out 
Log in or 
sign up 
Public services
and online information 
Single contact center
the call is free
paid call
for foreign calls (free through the internet) 
1414 +7 7172 906 984 
For example: Address reference 
Single contact center
the call is free
paid call
for foreign calls (free through the internet) 
1414 +7 7172 906 984 
Menu
Services 
--> Proactive services 
-->
Open Government 
Personal account 
Register of state services 
Payment 
About Portal 
Help 
Home 
Pass to heading 
How foreigners can obtain a work permit in Kazakhstan 
Printable version 
Last update: 22.04.2026 
Also look:
Holidays and weekends in the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2026 
Rest timе 
Factory calendar for 2026 in the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Useful online services 
Professional holidays of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
If you are a foreign national planning to engage in employment within the Republic of Kazakhstan, this article outlines the steps required to obtain the permit.
To cross the state border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, you will need a valid national passport. Upon entry, the border service will place an entry stamp in your passport.
All the subsequent procedures, including obtaining a temporary residence permit, applying for an IIN (individual identification number), if required, and securing a work permit for employment with an individual, are carried out at Citizen Service Centers (CSCs).
Issuance of a temporary residence permit 
Foreign nationals arriving in Kazakhstan are allowed to stay for up to 30 days without obtaining a temporary residence permit (TRP).
For stays exceeding 30 days (for purposes such as employment, study, medical treatment, business immigration, family reunification, or missionary activity ), a TRP must be obtained.
To obtain the public service, applicants must apply to the local police authorities at the place of registration, State Corporation or via the Portal and submit an application for the issuance of a temporary residence permit to a foreigner or a stateless person in the Republic of Kazakhstan, with supporting documents attached depending on the purpose of stay and according to the list of the major requirements for the provision of the public service “Issuance of a permit to foreigners and stateless persons for temporary residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan”.
Obtaining an IIN for payment of state fees 
To obtain a work permit, a foreign national must first find an employer within the Republic of Kazakhstan and conclude an employment contract. Citizens of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan, Moldova, Georgia, and Ukraine are allowed to work for private individuals without obtaining a permit. Citizens of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) (Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, and Armenia) may work in the Republic of Kazakhstan without a permit on the basis of an employment contract.
To pay the required state fee, migrants must obtain an IIN.
To receive an IIN, applicants must apply at a Citizen Service Center (CSC) and present a valid national passport.
External resources
E-licensing 
Taxpayer cabinet 
Judicial office 
Debtor-creditor 
Activity calendar 
Anti-corruption measures 
State agencies of RK 
Constitution of the RK 
National symbols of the RK 
Address of the President of the RK 
State agencies of RK 
Anti-corruption measures 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Government for citizens
Reserve queue 
Contacts 
Services list 
Legislation 
Privacy policy 
Feedback 
Site map 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
Social networks
E-mail: support@goscorp.kz 
Found a mistake?
Select it and click Ctrl+Enter 
© Electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Page up 
× 
Notification
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
For further working with egov.kz, you need to install the certificate issued by National Certification Authority of the Republic of Kazakhstan .
Dear user!
Make sure NCALayer has been run/installed and try again.
Guidelines on running the program 
Close 
Help 
About Portal 
Personal account Help 
Total visitors per month:
Total visitors for yesterday:
Now on the portal:
URL:
Error:
Comment:
Send 
Cancel 
Спасибо, информация об ошибке принята.
Извините, в данный момент информация об ошибке не может быть обработана.
Попробуйте позже. 
OK 
CHAT_DOMAIN = 'https://kenes.1414.kz';
(function (d, s, id) {
var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
js = d.createElement(s);
js.id = id;
js.src = CHAT_DOMAIN + "/static/js/local_loader.js";
fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
})(document, 'script', 'chatbotscript');
